brandonperlmanIn preparation for the loads of snow we are about to receive from the blizzard hitting New York and New England, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo has declared a state of emergency throughout the state. Massachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island are also under states of emergency. 50,000 people are already out of power. Governor Cuomo is urging people to get home as soon as possible, and to try to stay off the roads. There are extra buses and subways deployed for early commuters, but as the night wears on, service will slow down. The city should get about a foot of snow, and other parts of the state could get more. There's currently a blizzard warning and a hurricane force wind warning in New York City, but Cuomo warned that Suffolk county and the Eastern part of upstate New York would bear the brunt of the storm. BREAKING: Governor declares state of emergency in #NYS in response to storm #nemo FREE AppDownload
The government is convinced that money managers who consistently beat the market are probably using insider information to produce these abnormal returns. Unfortunately for prosecutors who want to shut this kind of thing down, one way this is done is perfectly legal. One of the ways for a hedge fund manager to beat the market is to avoid buying stocks ahead of bad news about a company. You can beat the market with a diversified portfolio that avoids buying stocks in companies that underperform. That's hard to do unless you have a way of figuring out bad news ahead of the rest of the market. Obtaining material, nonpublic information is one way. But if you trade with this information, you risk violating insider trading prohibitions. Hefty fines and jail time won't help you outperform. So the way to do this is to avoid trading in the companies that are going to announce bad news. Let's say you have a portfolio that regularly buys and sells a diversified portfolio of equities throughout the year. In that case, by obtaining inside information and avoiding buying the stocks with hidden bad news, you would avoid suffering some of the losses that would hit the broader markets. What makes this legal is that the ban on insider trading applies only to trades. That is, the SEC's Rule 10b-5 prohibits using material nonpublic information "in connection with the purchase or sale of a security." So if you are only using inside information to avoid buying, you are not violating the law. The trick with this is to avoid the temptation to short the stock. Shorting involves selling the stock—and eventually buying it—which means you're engaging in a prohibited trade. The other problem is that your quest for insider information containing bad news might occasionally turn up good news. In that case, you'd be stuck having not to buy the stocks that are going to go up. This would tend to push down your returns, of course. This problem can be resolved by keeping the inside information within silos in a hedge fund. You have various analysts constantly digging for inside information but only delivering "don't buy" notices to the traders. The traders, therefore, would never have the good news that would get in the way of buying a stock. You could get a bit more complex by also having the analysts deliver "don't short" notices when they have good news. The problem with this is that your traders would then be tempted to interpret this as a "go long" signal. At the very least, this is what the enforcement guys at the SEC would say was happening. So you'd want to confine "don't short" notices to guys who have short-only portfolios. So are hedge fund managers doing this? Some of the people in hedge funds swear it is happening, although no one I speak to admits to doing it themselves. Perhaps the best guide would be to look for hedge funds that have silo structures that would permit this. FREE AppDownload
It's the Lunar New Year.  And according to the Chinese Zodiac, we have entered the year of the snake. But if history predicts the future (and it usually doesn't), than this could end up being an underperforming year for stocks. From LPL Financial 's Jeff Kleintop: Chinese Lunar New Year – 2013 is the year of the snake. A look back at average annual stock market returns from 1950 by zodiac sign shows us that the year of the snake has been the worst performing and one of only two zodiac years with negative returns. Unfortunately, this year’s animal has not been lucky for investors [Figure 1]. LPL Financial FREE AppDownload
pdxjasmine / FlickrMarkets staged a modest rally.  For the week, the S&amp;P closed up, but the Dow closed down. First the scoreboard: Dow: 13,992, +48.9, +0.3 percentS&amp;P 500: 1,517, +8.5, +0.5 percentNASDAQ: 3,193, +28.7, +0.9 percent And now the top stories: BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial. FREE AppDownload
AP imagesWeather is inherently unpredictable.   This is a fact we should all remember when interpreting predictions of storms and their effects.   Some people have suggested that the powerful Nor'easter meteorologists have been predicting for the last few days (dubbed Nemo by The Weather Channel to the chagrin of the larger weather community, including the National Weather Service) is going to be a "bust."  That's probably not true, says James West, Senior Meteorologist at Earth Network-WeatherBug.  There's always a chance that a storm can be less severe than forecast, but a "wide-scale bust is not in the cards," he told Business Insider. Forecasters are increasingly confident that this will be a big storm.  "All indications from the computer models and the actually observations — radar, satellite, observations — seen across the East Coast indicates that this storm is a textbook Nor'easter," said West.  In New York City, there will be a mix of sleet and rain this afternoon, before heavy snow rolls in tonight. In most places in the city, the rain has already turned to snow. We can expect to see six to 10 inches accumulating overnight, with a total snowfall of seven to 14 inches by Saturday morning, which is in line with earlier predictions.  Boston is really going to get slammed.  The city will likely see more than two feet of snow, with a few places seeing up to 30 inches, says West.  As a general consensus: It's "not a great Friday night to be out and about," says West.  FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsVenezuela just undertook a massive currency devaluation, re-pegging the bolivar to a value of 6.3 per U.S. dollar from its previous official exchange rate of 4.3 bolivars per dollar. The government also announced that it would shutter the Venezuelan currency exchange system known as SITME. Given the currency devaluation underway in other economies around the world right now – perhaps most notably in Japan – a few are calling this Venezuela's foray into the global "currency war" between countries trying to devalue their currencies in order to increase export competitiveness. However, Venezuela appears to be having a different sort of problem. The country is experiencing a shortage of U.S. dollars, which is making it hard for the country to pay for imports. Bloomberg's Corina Pons &amp; Nathan Crooks reported on Monday: The government isn’t considering a devaluation at the moment given its strong balance of payments, the official said. The goal is to improve the supply of dollars while keeping in place existing currency controls, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because no final decision has been made. Last week the government took its first step to increase the supply of dollars in the economy by channeling more of its oil exports revenue to the central bank. South America’s biggest oil producer is facing shortages of goods ranging from diapers to cars as the lack of dollars crimps imports. In the black market, the bolivar has weakened 53 percent to 18.39 per U.S. dollar in the past year, according to Lechuga Verde, a website that tracks the rate. Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez spent a ton of money (fiscal stimulus-wise) getting re-elected, and it's left the government with a pretty serious budget deficit. As Bloomberg's Charlie Devereuz and Jose Orozco explain, "The move can help narrow the budget deficit by increasing the amount of bolivars the government gets from taxes on oil exports." FREE AppDownload
APBoth sides of the political aisle are trading blame for a looming sequester of across-the-board spending cuts that neither side really wants anymore. House Speaker John Boehner is blasting the "#obamaquester" on Twitter — which, as detailed in Bob Woodward's "The Price of Politics," was the White House's idea. The White House's idea of the sequester, however, came about because they saw it as a good alternative to what Republicans were proposing at the time — austerity at a much weaker point of the economic recovery. In 2011, Boehner established the so-called "Boehner rule," which proposed corresponding dollar-for-dollar cuts in spending to accompany any increase in the nation's debt limit. The Congressional Budget Office warned at the time that any sharp cuts could destroy the economic recovery. And about two weeks before the 2011 debt-ceiling "doomsday" that would have risked the U.S. defaulting on its obligations, the Republican-controlled House passed the Cut, Cap and Balance Act. It promised a three-pronged approach to curbing federal spending that could have severely hampered what was still at the time feeble economic growth — reducing the budget deficit by half in fiscal year 2012, capping federal spending at an unfeasible 18 percent of GDP, and proposing to balance the budget via constitutional amendment. The White House, in turn, thought that a better enforcement mechanism toward fundamental deficit reduction in the form of tax reform and future, measured spending cuts would be the threat of a sequester.  From Woodward's book: Via Woodward: “A trigger would lock in our commitment,” Sperling explained. “Even though we disagree on the composition of how to get to the cuts, it would lock us in. The form of the automatic sequester would punish both sides. We’d have to September to avert any sequester”— a legal obligation to make spending cuts. “Then we could use a medium or big deal to force tax reform,” Obama said optimistically. “If this is a trigger for tax reform,” Boehner said, “this could be worth discussing. But as a budget tool, it’s too complicated. I’m very nervous about this.” The Budget Control Act, which contained the sequester, eventually passed with overwhelming bipartisan support. 174 of 240 House Republicans supported it, and Senate Republicans voted for it by a 28-19 margin. The support from Democrats was lower in the House (a 95-95 split) but supported it in the Senate 45-6. FREE AppDownload
AP imagesAlmost 50,000 homes in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic have lost power due to a large snow storm, Reuters reports. CBS Local in Boston reports that 5,400 had lost power by 2.30pm. The National Weather Service had warned of scattered powered outages. "This isn't [superstorm] Sandy," News12 meteorologist Brysen Van Eck said earlier. "There isn't going to be widespread trees across highways. It won't take us days to recover." During Sandy almost 8.5 million customers lost power, and 2,000 people in New Jersey and and New York are still without power from that storm. The National Grid, which took over storm duties from LIPA, has said any power outages will be fixed within 24 hours. ConEdison customers can report downed power lines and outages here. FREE AppDownload
FA Insights is a daily newsletter from Business Insider that delivers the top news and commentary for financial advisors. Financial Advisors That Helped Make ETFs Mainstream Are Finally Feeling Vindicated (The Wall Street Journal) Financial advisors who helped make ETFs a mainstream investment are feeling vindicated. The first ETF, SPDR S&amp;P 500 (SPY) which is 20-years old, gained 8.4 percent on average every year going into Friday.  While ETFs are popular now, early on advisors were either skeptical of the funds or shied away from them for fear of losing business since ETFs are easier to use. Ric Edelman of Edelman Financial Services told the Wall Street Journal,  "We've found that using ETFs as part of a passive portfolio management strategy provides a very effective shield against the deceptive business practices so prevalent in the retail funds industry." Markets Have Reached A Dangerous Stage Where Lots Of Money Is Looking For Deals (Barron's) Even as the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) is near the 14,000 mark, prices of high-yield bonds have fallen from their peaks and yields have gone north from their historic lows. Some have seen this is a sign of the Great Rotation from bonds into stocks, but bond expert Martin Fridson writes that it is because of the "extreme overvaluation" of high yield bonds. "What appears to have changed is the financial markets' willingness to exploit this cheap source of financing with animal spirits not seen since the onset of the financial crisis of 2007-08. With junk bonds hardly worthy to be called "high yield" at under 6%, they provide easy and cheap financing for deals, such as the proposed leveraged buyout of Dell (ticker: DELL), whose shares trade at a depressed valuation "...It is apparent markets have reached that dangerous stage where there is lots of money looking for deals. The cache of cash on corporations' balance sheets is huge, resulting in no small part from expansion the balance sheets of central banks. At the same time, all that cash is chasing record-low returns. "To paraphrase Winston Churchill, never have a few invested so much for so little." Newsletter Writers Are Recommending The Highest Exposure To Stocks In 13 Years (AllStartCharts) "The survey of investment newsletter writers from Hulbert Financial Digest is theoretically better than most, since it focuses on actual trading recommendations instead of sometimes-ambiguous opinions.  It's a step closer to a real-money indicator than other surveys." And this survey shows that investment newsletter writers are recommending the highest exposure to stocks in 13 years. The New Disturbing Signal In This Week's Data On Fund Flows (Business Insider) The week U.S. Treasury funds saw inflows of $0.5 billion after 10 consecutive weeks of outflows. The lack of outflows this week is evidence of a risk reversal according to Bank of America's Michael Hartnett. Meanwhile, high-yield ETFs recorded their largely weekly outflows on record. Zero Hedge, BofA Merrill Lynch, EPFR Global   Jim Rogers Says This One Thing Is One Of His Most Bullish Investments For The Next 20 - 30 Years (Business Insider) In an interview with Business Insider, Jim Rogers said he is extremely bullish on Chinese tourism for the next twenty to thirty years. "The government is encouraging citizens to travel. There are billion three hundred million, that's billion with a 'B' …you can see the staggering potential there is for Chinese tourism. And they're going to see their own country, they're going to see the world. I mean this is going to overwhelm many many places and it's wonderful. Fortunes will be made." FREE AppDownload
DEAR ITALY: I'm coming to town. With Silvio Berlusconi inching up in the polls ahead of the February 24-25 election, I've decided to make a trip of it, and cover the election from the ground. The election should be important to everyone in Europe, and the world. It was Silvio Berlusconi's ouster in late 2011 that allowed Italian borrowing costs to come down, paving the way for the European crisis to fade significantly in 2012. Bloomberg But even with the sovereign debt/financial crisis having faded over the last year, the economic crisis rages on. The economy in Italy seems to be getting worse and worse, and nobody in any authority position seems eager to take aggressive steps to address that situation. This is why the current PM Mario Monti is so unpopular, and why Berlusconi has a chance of making a comeback in the first place. So here's the deal. I'm going to be in town from the 21-27 of February. The plan is for me to split my time between Milan and Rome. I'd love to get recommendations on: So if you know anything/anybody, let me know. Contact me at jweisenthal@businessinsider.com and let's meet up! FREE AppDownload
The New York Post's Mark DeCambre reports that Bob Diamond, the former CEO of Barclays who resigned last summer amid the LIBOR scandal, might launch a hedge fund, according to unnamed sources.  From the Post:  Sources familiar with Diamond’s thinking said that he is considering launching a hedge fund, possibly based in New York. “Bob wants to come back to Wall Street and whether it is soon or in six months isn’t clear,” said one source. The Post also reports that Vikram Pandit, who suddenly resigned as CEO of Citi back in October, is considering starting a private equity firm.  Pandit started a hedge fund that was bought by Citi.  SEE ALSO: Jon Corzine Is Considering Starting A Hedge Fund &gt; FREE AppDownload
The Weekly Leading Index (WLI) of the Economic Cycle Research Institute (ECRI) rose in the latest public data. It is now at 130.2 versus the previous week's downwardly revised 129.6 (from 129.7). See the WLI chart in the Appendix below. The WLI annualized growth indicator (WLIg) rose, now at 8.9, up from last week's 8.2 (a downward revision from 8.3). WLIg has been in expansion territory since August 10th of last year, and it is at its highest level since mid-May of 2010. ECRI posts its proprietary indicators on one-week delayed basis to the general public, but ECRI's Lakshman Achuthan has switched focus to his company's version of the Big Four Economic Indicators I've been tracking for the past several months. See, for example, this November 29th Bloomberg video that ECRI continues to feature on its website -- ten weeks later. Achuthan pinpoints July as the business cycle peak, thus putting us in the eighth month of a recession. Here is a chart that severely undermines the ECRI recession call -- the smoothed year-over-year percent change since 2000 of their proprietary weekly leading index. I've highlighted the 2011 date of ECRI's recession call and the hypothetical July business cycle peak, which the company claims was the start of a recession.     First a flashback for those of us who have followed ECRI's media appearances: we know that the company adamantly denied that the sharp decline of their indicators in 2010 marked the beginning of a recession. But in 2011, when their proprietary indicators were at levels higher than 2010, they made their recession call with stunning confidence bordering on arrogance: For a few months, ECRI's indicators cooperated with their forecast, but that has not been the case since the second half of 2012 -- hence, I surmise, their switch to the traditional Big Four recession indicators. ECRI's December 7th article, The Tell-Tale Chart, makes clear their public focus on the Big Four.   The Big Four The Big Four Indicators that I track continue to show a slowly recovering US economy. However, the dramatic increase in Real Income Less Transfer Payments over the past two months (the red line in the chart below) has given a overly positive skew that will be reversed when the January numbers are released on March 1st. Those increases were the result of widespread shifting of early 2013 income into 2012 as a pre-Fiscal Cliff tax strategy. For an illustration of the impact of this year-end tax planning strategy in the past, see this YoY Personal Income chart and note the two pairs of tax-planning callouts in the 1990s. My Personal View... The Fiscal Cliff is behind us and the Debt Ceiling showdown has been pushed out. The Big Four Economic Indicators continue to show expansion, now including the lagging Real Manufacturing and Trade Sales report. Here is a snapshot of ECRI's version of the Big Four Economic Indicators. However, despite my rejection of ECRI's recession call, I don't think the US economy free from recession risk. However wrong ECRI might have been, significant risks remain. The greatest endogenous threat to the US economy is the impact of the expired 2% FICA tax holiday, the decline in early 2013 personal income as a result of 2012 year-end maneuvers and the looming sequestration process. The Advance Estimate for Q4 GDP at minus 0.1 percent bears watching. Of course, the Second and Third Estimates could adjust it higher. And this morning's upbeat report on our Trade Balance strengthens the likelihood that the 2nd Estimate of Q4 GDP will be revised to a positive number. The Usual Caveat: The recent economic data are subject to revision, so we must view these numbers accordingly. Nevertheless, I continue to think that an ECRI retraction of their recession call is long overdue.   Despite the apparent increasing irrelevance of the ECRI indicators, let's check them out. The first chart below shows the history of the Weekly Leading Index and highlights its current level.     For a better understanding of the relationship of the WLI level to recessions, the next chart shows the data series in terms of the percent off the previous peak. In other words, a new weekly high registers at 100%, with subsequent declines plotted accordingly.     As the chart above illustrates, only once has a recession occurred without the index level achieving a new high -- the two recessions, commonly referred to as a "double-dip," in the early 1980s. Our current level is 11.9% off the most recent high, which was set over five years ago in June 2007. We're now tied with the previously longest stretch between highs, which was from February 1973 to April 1978. But the index level rose steadily from the trough at the end of the 1973-1975 recession to reach its new high in 1978. The pattern in ECRI's indictor is quite different, and this has no doubt been a key factor in their business cycle analysis. The WLIg Metric The best known of ECRI's indexes is their growth calculation on the WLI. For a close look at this index in recent months, here's a snapshot of the data since 2000.     Now let's step back and examine the complete series available to the public, which dates from 1967. ECRI's WLIg metric has had a respectable record for forecasting recessions and rebounds therefrom. The next chart shows the correlation between the WLI, GDP and recessions.     The History of ECRI's Latest Recession Call ECRI's weekly leading index has become a major focus and source of controversy ever since September 30th of last year, when ECRI publicly announced that the U.S. is tipping into a recession, a call the Institute had announced to its private clients on September 21st. Here is an excerpt from the announcement: Year-over-Year Growth in the WLI Triggered by another ECRI commentary, Why Our Recession Call Stands, I now include a snapshot of the year-over-year growth of the WLI rather than ECRI's previously favored method of calculating the WLIg series from the underlying WLI (see the endnote below). Specifically the chart immediately below is the year-over-year change in the 4-week moving average of the WLI. The red dots highlight the YoY value for the month when recessions began.     As the chart above makes clear, the WLI YoY, now at 5.8%, is unchanged from the past two weeks. This is higher than at the onset of all seven recessions in the chart timeframe. The closest to the current level was the second half of the early 1980s double dip, which was to some extent an engineered recession to break the back of inflation, is a conspicuous outlier in this series, starting with a WLI YoY at 4.1%. Additional Sources for Recession Forecasts Dwaine van Vuuren, CEO of RecessionAlert.com, and his collaborators, including Georg Vrba and Franz Lischka, have developed a powerful recession forecasting methodology that shows promise of making forecasts with fewer false positives, which I take to include excessively long lead times, such as ECRI's September 2011 recession call. Here is today's update of Georg Vrba's analysis, which is explained in more detail in this article.     Earlier Video Chronology of ECRI's Recession Call   Note: How to Calculate the Growth series from the Weekly Leading Index ECRI's weekly Excel spreadsheet includes the WLI and the Growth series, but the latter is a series of values without the underlying calculations. After a collaborative effort by Franz Lischka, Georg Vrba, Dwaine van Vuuren and Kishor Bhatia to model the calculation, Georg discovered the actual formula in a 1999 article published by Anirvan Banerji, the Chief Research Officer at ECRI: The three Ps: simple tools for monitoring economic cycles - pronounced, pervasive and persistent economic indicators. Here is the formula: This article originally appeared at Advisor Perspectives.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
YoutubeIn this round of our review of mega-companies earnings call transcripts, there seem to be two clear winners: "emerging markets" and agriculture. In particular, China is "back" (if it ever went away...), and Mexico and Brazil are well down the path of creating a buoyant middle class. And within ag, extreme weather conditions are forcing farmers to make new purchases and adjust their production methods. But the rest of the world faces a cloudy 2013. We compiled earnings transcripts from Bloomberg and selected the juiciest portions for your consumption. FREE AppDownload
AP imagesSnow from a powerful Nor'easter started to coat parts of the Northeast Friday morning. Some places got rain, others sleet and snow. As the day grows colder, though, most places north of New York City will switch over to snow. It's already happened in New York City. The heaviest accumulations are expected overnight; the storm could drop two to four inches per hour at its peak. Here are some pictures from the storm so far.  
Jennifer Welsh/Business InsiderThe view of the snow from the Business Insider offices in the Flatiron district in New York City. It is now snowing in New York City. We've seen reports of snow everywhere form Jersey City to Chelsea and Flatiron. It's snowing in the Village, and on the BQE from South Brooklyn. The snow is just the beginning of the blizzard named Nemo, which will bring whiteout conditions and up to a foot of snow to the city.  The transition to snow from rain is about three hours earlier than expected, Eric Holthaus said on twitter. This could mean we will end up on the high end of predictions. Most of the meteorologists we have been following are saying we will end up with about a foot of snow total. The snow will be much worse in New England, especially in Boston, where they expect up to 36 inches of snow.  And all at once, NYC is changing over to snow -- about 3hrs ahead of schedule. #blizzard time is starting. FREE AppDownload
In his latest book Street Smarts, legendary investor Jim Rogers says he is extremely bullish on Chinese tourism for the next 20 or 30 years. He stopped by to tell us why he thinks "great fortunes will be made" in Chinese tourism, why he watches for black markets, and why in his book he calls Jim O'Neill and Stephen Roach "clueless". Produced by Business Insider Video FREE AppDownload
America's trade balance shrunk 20.7 percent in December. The gap was much narrower than expected. Why? The changing oil picture. Crude exports, which set an all-time record at $6.5 million. Here's the chart for December exports, going back to 1994, the most recent year for which data is available: Census Meanwhile, imports continue to plummet.  Overall 2012 barrels imported declined to 3.1 billion, the lowest level since 1997: Census The overall 2012 petroleum product deficit shrunk 15 percent to -$128,442,0000. The value of petroleum exports grew +7.8 percent, while import values declined -7.7 percent.  FREE AppDownload
Flows into equity funds totaled $6.6 billion in the first week of February. January's historic inflows averaged $13.5 billion a week, but this isn't really a strong signal that flows into mutual funds and ETFs investing in stocks are slowing down. However, there are two other observations from this week's flow data that could be concerning for investors in risk assets. This week, U.S. Treasury funds recorded their first inflows – $0.5 billion – after 10 straight weeks of outflows, totaling about $6 billion. This week's gains in the Treasury fund space obviously don't make up for the $6 billion that have flowed out of those funds in recent weeks, but the fact that they didn't suffer outflows this week is evident of a risk reversal nonetheless, says BofA strategist Michael Hartnett. The data on high-yield debt flows offer much more striking evidence of a risk reversal, as the chart below shows (via Zero Hedge). This week, high-yield ETFs recorded their largest weekly outflows ever. Zero Hedge, BofA Merrill Lynch, EPFR Global Zero interest rate policy has depressed yields in safer bonds, like investment grade and government debt, causing investors searching for interest income to move further out on the risk spectrum – arriving at the high-yield bond market. As such, high-yield is one of the first places you would expect to see a breakdown in a risk rally, and that appears to have happened pretty swiftly this week. Credit strategist Peter Tchir recently wrote an excellent, inside look at high-yield ETFs specifically, and why self-enforcing feedback loops in those funds pose so much risk in the event of a selloff (Bond ETFs Are A Massive Accident Waiting To Happen). It will be very interesting to keep an eye on the data in the next few weeks to see whether or not the move out of high-yield reverses, and whether the negative sentiment infects the equity space. FREE AppDownload
Back in 1900, the UK had the world's largest equity market, according to a research report from Credit Suisse (via Barry Ritholtz). Soon after, the U.S. and barring a three-year period in the late 1980s, it has stayed that way. One of the more interesting stock markets to look at is Japan's. Japan's stock market capitalization (or market value) all but disappeared in the 1940s following WWII. At the time, stocks lost lost 96 percent of their real value. But, "from 1949 to 1959, Japan's 'economic miracle' began and equities gave a real return of 1,565%." From the report: "At its peak, Japan accounted for 45% of the total market capitalization of our 22 countries. Then the Japanese bubble burst and, by the end of 2012, Japan’s proportion had fallen to just 8%, while the USA still accounted for 51%." Credit Suisse FREE AppDownload
Citi's currency genius Steven Englander has a big note out about the declining Japanese yen, and how much of global markets are taking its cues from what the yen is doing. The declining yen has caused a lot of consternation among other exporting nations, as they see the cost of their own exports get relatively more expensive. That's why people are using this "currency wars" terminology. German politicians have already been calling out Japan. Expect more tension in Korea, too. Anyway, Englander has a great chart showing how the relative strength of Korean vs. Japanese equities is perfectly in line with the Japanese yen vs. the Korean won. As the yen weakens vs. the won, Japanese stocks outperform. Korean companies are bound to get annoyed. Citi   FREE AppDownload
A young Wall Street analyst wrote this to The New York Times: I am a 22-year-old man working at a new job on Wall Street. My boss is a very attractive 30-year-old woman. We happen to exercise at the same gym at the same time. We both swim, and the first time we ran into each other, she was wearing a one-piece bathing suit, and I was wearing a classic Speedo. I saw her look me up and down. The next week, she started wearing a thong bikini. Isn’t this a power thing? Jim, Fort Lee, N.J. Thoughts?  [Via Dealbreaker's Bess Levin] FREE AppDownload
Japan's monetary easing is the talk of financial markets, and everyone's talking about a currency war. But at least Larry Kudlow gets it. There is no currency war. Japan is right to fight deflation by lowering yen. It's actually good for world growth. That's all there is to say. Japan has deflation and improperly tight monetary policy. Now they're attempting to introduce monetary policy that's in line with is what should be economically appropriate. This isn't a currency war. Just a proper response. FREE AppDownload
flickr / fairlybuoyantOn January 17, Bloomberg News correspondents Elisa Martinuzzi and Nicholas Dunbar broke news of a major scandal in Italy. Monte dei Paschi – the world's oldest bank and one of Italy's biggest – had engaged in shady derivatives deals with Deutsche Bank to cover up hundreds of millions of euros in losses, then employed some creative accounting to hide the trades from shareholders and the public. Now that the story is out and an investigation is underway, Monte dei Paschi's losses from properly accounting for the effects of the derivatives trades on its balance sheet are expected to total €730 million ($977 million). Given the bank's close association with the Italian left and the fact that it has received state-backed bailouts since the derivatives trades took place but before they were revealed, the Monti dei Paschi derivatives scandal has become a major storyline in the upcoming Italian national election, just weeks away. We caught up with Martinuzzi, the Bloomberg News reporter who broke the story, to get some more insight on the scandal and what it means for the election. She's a financial correspondent based in Milan covering global banking, so she's got a good perspective on the situation. Below is our Q&amp;A with Martinuzzi. -------------------------------------------- How were you able to piece this story together?EM: Though the last stretch involved pulling an all-nighter, with editors from London, to New York to Hong Kong shepherding the story out, it didn't exactly come together in a day.BloombergThe story took six months to piece together, starting with a tip-off I got from a source. After scouring the public accounts of Monte Paschi, and seeing just a vague reference to a deal dubbed Santorini, I suspected there may have been failures in disclosure. That became apparent in November when the company said it would seek more money from the Italian government because of structured deals gone bad. Having then established through other sources that the tip-off was accurate, the next challenge was finding independent experts who could validate the thesis, as well as understanding the complex deal well-enough myself so I could explain it to our readers.That was possibly the hardest part, because once you start reaching out to more and more sources the clock is ticking.With my London colleague Nicholas Dunbar, we cast the net wide, from Australia to San Diego. The good news was all the experts we spoke to concurred in their analysis. We had nailed it.Do you think this scandal raises questions about the integrity of the books at other Italian banks and, by extension, other euro-zone banks outside of Italy?EM: Italian regulators and government officials have stated that this is a one off, that the Italian banking system is solid. Still, Monte Paschi has highlighted the challenges that regulators, and not just the Bank of Italy, are constantly grappling with. The Bank of Italy spotted accounting anomalies at the world's oldest lender in 2010, but there wasn't enough to suspect deliberate wrongdoing. Part of the problem, according to the Bank of Italy, is that there's room for interpretation under IAS accounting rules. The Italian central bank is still in discussions -- almost two years on -- with accounting bodies on this very subject. Without a paper trail linking Monte Paschi's new deals with the existing losses, the regulator says it wasn't possible to spot the cover-up. For accounting experts, the key lies in seizing on the complexity of these deals, so complex because they're hiding their stated objective. That should be the red flag. How has the Italian mainstream media been characterizing the link between Monte dei Paschi and the Italian left in the run-up to the election? How is the media coverage of the scandal impacting the race? EM: It's a fact and not a matter of opinion that politics was deeply involved in the management of Monte Paschi. The foundation that has been the bank's biggest shareholder is run by political appointees and names Paschi's management. Politicians across the political spectrum have seized on the opportunity grabbing the headlines with attacks on the Democratic Party, which runs the local government and controls the foundation. Newspapers have been carrying front-page stories and multiple-page coverage on Paschi for two weeks now. From reports multi-billion slush funds, to exposes on who knew what when at Paschi, the media has been scrambling to get ahead in the coverage. The latest election polls show a mixed effect. The center-left coalition led by front-runner Luigi Bersani of the PD gained 1 percentage point to 33.8%, according to a weekly poll by SWG published Feb. 8, but is still lagging the 34.1% support it boasted on Jan. 25. Anti-establishment comic-turned-politician Beppe Grillo’s Five Star Movement has also gained in the last SWG poll to 18.8% while former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi's coalition was unchanged. Mario Draghi mostly brushed off questions regarding the Monte dei Paschi scandal at today's ECB press conference - but will this be a roadblock for establishing a single supervisory mechanism at the ECB? EM: In Draghi's own words, the Monte Paschi scandal showed that having more powers would have helped. It's not clear whether the ECB will have such powers as the rules are still being written. There will have to be "profound legislative changes", Draghi tells us, including rules that allow the supervisor to judge a manager and to remove a manager if necessary. Perhaps Monte Paschi will help facilitate the necessary adjustments as it brought to life what can go wrong at a critical time for the ECB. FREE AppDownload
YouTubeNYU finance professor Aswath Damodaran has posted an epic dismantling of David Einhorn's recent plan to create value for Apple's shareholders. Quick recap: Yesterday, Einhorn, a major hedge fund manager, laid out a way for Apple to enrich its shareholders by offering preferred shares, a bond-like security that pays dividends into perpetuity. Here's the nut of Einhorn's proposal: ...With this conservative action, Greenlight believes the Board could unlock hundreds of billions of dollars of latent shareholder value. Assuming Apple retains its price to earnings multiple of 10x and the preferred stock yields 4%, our calculations show that every $50 billion of perpetual preferred stock that Apple distributes would unlock about $30 billion, or $32 per share in value.  Greenlight believes that Apple has the capacity to ultimately distribute several hundred billion dollars of preferred, which would unlock hundreds of dollars of value per share. Damodaran sees a lot of problems with Einhorn's proposal. In the first part of his argument, he makes it very clear in big bold letters: "There will be NO value created.. none.. " This was a position taken yesterday by Business Insider's Henry Blodget. "Issuing preferred stock will not add value to the company, not one cent," writes Damodaran.  The cost of capital won't change, and the price-earnings ratio won't be constant.  He explains fully in his post. In the second part of his argument, Damodaran gives Einhorn a bit of a break and suggests that "he is trying to unlock the 'price', rather than the value."  This suggests that investors are holding down the stock price for some other reason outside of intrinsic value. Damodaran offers two reasons why investors might be holding down the price.  Here they are verbatim (emphasis ours): "If investors are discounting cash for one or both of these reasons, the preferred stock may serve to increase the price," he writes. But preferred stock isn't the only way to send cash back to shareholders.  Damodaran reminds us that dividends (common and special), buybacks, and bonds are all alternative ways for a company to release cash to investors.  Each has various income tax matters to consider.  He discusses each option in depth in his post. From Damodaran: "Bottom line: If the objective behind the preferred stock is to remove the “trust” or the “trapped” discount on cash, why create a complicated mechanism, when a simple one will do? Just raise common dividends, if you do not want to open the door to debt at the moment, but leave that door ajar for the future." And Damodaran's issue with preferred stock doesn't stop with complexity. "It brings many of the disadvantages of debt into a company (the fixed commitment, albeit with lesser consequences for failure to pay) without the tax benefit," he wrote. He notes that there are three types of companies that employ preferred stock (in his words): control freaks, young and start-up firms, and financial service firms. Surveys show, according to Damodaran, that when a non-financial service firm issues preferred stock, it is "more a sign of desperation than it is of health." "No matter what you think about Apple’s prospect, I don’t think you would view them as being desperate for new capital right now," he says. Anyone interested in this story should read Damodaran's entire post at Musings on Markets. But we'll include his generous closing: In closing, I am glad, as an Apple stockholder, that David Einhorn is rocking the boat, even if I think his proposal is ... not the most effective catalyst or game changer. It opens the door to a healthy discussion about how Apple should deal with its large and growing cash balance, and that is a good thing for all concerned. Read the full post at Musings on Markets &gt; FREE AppDownload
A powerful Nor'easter is set to slam the Northeast tonight and tomorrow, bringing strong winds and up to two feet of snow in some places, including Boston.   Our advice: Stay indoors! If you want to stay nice and toasty, while also watching loads of snow blanket everything in endless white, check out these live feeds compiled by Earthcam.   Click the picture to go to the live webcam.   "Great Falls" in Paterson, New Jersey Earthcam.com Times Square: Above the sidewalk on Broadway between 46th and 47th streets Earthcam.com The Jersey Shore Earthcam.com The Statue of Liberty  Earthcam.com Atlantic City, NJ Earthcam.com Cornwall, CT Earthcam.com Boston, MA: Boston University Boston University Revere Beach, MA Boston.com FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via Bloomberg TVResearcher and short seller Carson Block does not care that his latest short, Singapore-based commodities trading firm Olam International, reported a 19.9% spike in net profits in its latest earnings report. He doesn't even care that the company, which he says is using the same tricks as Enron, posted a revenue of $4.9 billion, a 9.2% boost. Block is sticking to his guns. His firm, Muddy Waters, released a 4 page response to Olam's earnings report detailing the problems it still sees with their accounting. In a nutshell, according to their response, Olam is dangerously high free cash burn, has taken on too much dangerous debt, has spent too much money on investments and acquisitions, and has an unsustainable interest burden. Olam announced it would offer $750 million in bonds and $500 million in warrants at the end of last year. Muddy Water or not, the offering was guaranteed to go well. Olam is part owned by Temasek, Singapore's sovereign wealth fund, and Temasek has no interest in seeing anything happen to Olam. All that said, the stock is up. Here's what it's looked like over the last 5 days. The company released its earnings yesterday. From Yahoo Finance: Yahoo Finance FREE AppDownload
Rachel Fox is blowing up.   Earlier this week, we wrote about the 16 year-old television actress, who is best known for her role as Kayla Scavo on "Desperate Housewives," and her day trading career.  Fox, who runs a day trading blog called "Fox On Stocks," said that she earns over 64 percent per year on her investments. This morning CNBC featured her on "Squawk On The Street" to talk about some of her favorite stock picks.   For day trading, she told CNBC that her favorite stocks are Tiffany's and Facebook. She said she had a great short sell on Tiffany's recently and that she likes Facebook because it's "relatively cheap" and has incredible volatility. Watch her give advice to CNBC viewers:  FREE AppDownload
The White House doubled down on its campaign to derail sequestration Friday, releasing a fact sheet that details the "most damaging effects" of the across-the-board spending cuts, which are scheduled to take effect March 1 unless Congress takes action.  Here are some of the most alarming ramifications: Read the full fact sheet below:   FACT SHEET: EXAMPLES OF HOW THE SEQUESTER WOULD IMPACT MIDDLE CLASS FAMILIES, JOBS AND ECONOMIC SECURITY    Unless Congress acts by March 1st, a series of automatic cuts—called a sequester—that threaten thousands of jobs and the economic security of the middle class will take effect.  There is no question that we need to cut the deficit, but the President believes it should be done in a balanced way that protects investments that the middle class relies on.  Already, the President has worked with Congress to reduce the deficit by more than $2.5 trillion, but there’s more to do.  The President believes we can not only avoid the harmful effects of a sequester but also reduce the deficit by $4 trillion total by cutting even more wasteful spending and eliminating tax loopholes for the wealthy. Unfortunately, many Republicans in Congress refuse to ask the wealthy to pay a little more by closing tax loopholes so that we can protect investments that are helping grow our economy and keep our country safe.  Our economy is poised to take off but we cannot afford a self-inflicted wound from Washington.  We cannot simply cut our way to prosperity, and if Republicans continue to insist on an unreasonable cuts-only approach, the middle class risks paying the price.  The most damaging effects of a sequester on the middle class are:    The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) now calculates that sequestration will require an annual reduction of roughly 5 percent for nondefense programs and roughly 8 percent for defense programs.  However, given that these cuts must be achieved over only seven months instead of 12, the effective percentage reductions will be approximately 9 percent for nondefense programs and 13 percent for defense programs.  These large and arbitrary cuts will have severe impacts across the government.    More detailed explanations of these cuts as well as additional areas that will be impacted include: Security and Safety   Research and Innovation Economic Growth Government Services Education  Economic Security Public Health FREE AppDownload
NYC.govPlowNYC has a great web application that lets you see when plows are in your neighborhood, and your streets' "Snow Removal Designation" — meaning how big of a priority it is.  The tracker shows how recently the streets have been plowed: green meaning in the last hour, and blue meaning in the last 1 to 3 hours. The map is updated every half hour.  Great info if you need to get anywhere this weekend, though the recommendation is to stay inside and only travel if absolutely necessary. You can access the tracker at NYC.gov, where you can put in your address and choose either "snow removal designation" too see what streets are a priority in your area, or "snow vehicle tracker" to see how recently the streets around you have been plowed. You can also see where your local police, fire, and EMS stations are, in case you need help. FREE AppDownload
Governments — from sovereign nations to states and localities — are measured on their ability to manage their finances and pay back what they owe. In issuing credit ratings, agencies such as Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index evaluate criteria such as financial management, budgetary performance, and debts and liabilities. S&amp;P 500 assesses the creditworthiness of each state by looking at the framework of state government and the state's economy. Various measures are added up, and the state receives a credit rating, which could be as high as a perfect AAA, and continues down through AA, A and A-. A state with one of the lower ratings will find that it will cost more to borrow money through the sale of bonds, and economic growth may be constrained in the future. For state governments, credit ratings reflect the ability to pay debts and the strength of the state's economy. A lower rating typically forces a state to pay higher interest costs on the debt securities known as general obligation bonds. Thirteen states currently earn Standard &amp; Poor's 500 index's highest possible credit rating, and another 31 are in the middle of the pack. Now, see the sagging six at the lower end of the scale. FREE AppDownload
In the Washington Post today, conservative columnist Charles Krauthammer writes that Republicans should "call Obama's sequester bluff." It's being passed around by Republicans and other conservatives on Twitter and in email blasts. Krauthammer's argument — which exemplifies a typical conservative shift on the sequester recently — is that Republicans now have leverage on the sequester over President Barack Obama. The leverage, Krauthammer writes, comes because the sequester was designed by the White House to force Republicans' hand on raising tax rates, since they would find the alternative — cutting defense spending — to be more abhorrent. Krauthammer writes: The country needs tax reform. But first it needs to rein in out-of-control spending. To succeed in doing that, Republicans must remain united under one demand: cuts with no taxes — or we will let the sequester go into effect. The morning after, they should sit down with Obama for negotiations on real tax reform as recommended by the president’s own Simpson-Bowles commission: broaden the base, lower the rates. Krauthammer wasn't always so bullish on using the sequester as a tool for leverage. Last May, he warned in an appearance on Fox News that letting the cuts go into effect would be a "catastrophe" for the nation's defense.  "Republicans are opposing it and trying to get out of it. What are Democrats doing? Leaving it in place, using it as a stick and blackmail weapon against the Republicans in return for trying to get increase in social spending or an increase in taxes," Krauthammer said. The conservative editorial board of The Wall Street Journal advanced a similar argument on Thursday. In an editorial entitled "The Unscary Sequester," the editorial board disputed Washington's "collective fit of terror." From the WSJ: It's nice to see Mr. Obama worry about "business decisions" for a change, but listening to his cries of "massive" cuts is like watching "Scary Movie" for the 10th time. You know it's a joke. [...]  Fear not. As always in Washington when there is talk of cutting spending, most of the hysteria is baseless. Then there's the editorial the board wrote not even seven months ago. It used the same language as Krauthammer — "catastrophe," which it wrote was "playing out in slow motion." The board also said that Obama had the leverage, and that it would be a "dangerous game" to play with the sequester. From that editorial (emphasis added): Like an audience at a horror movie, nearly everyone paying attention is yelling "watch out!" into a political and media void. [...] Mr. Obama knows all this from his own Pentagon's warnings, so why is he inviting a crack-up? The answer is that he wants to use GOP concerns about defense to bludgeon Republicans into accepting a huge tax increase. Republicans were unwise to accept the sequestration deal while leaving entitlements off the table, thus handing Mr. Obama more leverage. But perhaps they never expected that a Commander in Chief who swore an oath to safeguard America's national security would play such a dangerous game. It's not the first time this President's political cynicism has been underestimated. FREE AppDownload
The New York Post reports that "Mean Girls" star Lindsay Lohan and her mom Dina were slapped with a foreclosure notice from Chase Bank at the Long Island home this week.  The Post reports that a bank rep left documents in an envelope that said "Important Information Enclosed" on the gate of Lohan's mom's mansion in Merrick, Long Island yesterday. FREE AppDownload
According to this map created by the Institute for Children, Poverty and Homelessness (ICPH), Manhattan's most educated live below 125th, and prefer the West side. In contrast, most people who live in uptown community districts like East Harlem and Washington Heights haven't graduated from high school. This map was created using U.S. Census Bureau, 2006–10 American Community Survey 5-year Estimates.  Check it out: Institute for Children, Poverty and Homelessness
Megan Willett/Business InsiderWhen Wesley Klein started baking bacon banana bread and bacon chocolate chip cookies at his home in 2011, he knew he had stumbled onto something big. Jump right to photos of our bakery tour and taste test &gt;&gt; "For a couple of months, I would bring my creations into work once a week," said Klein, a former Best Buy manager. "Some stuff worked, some stuff didn't, but [my coworkers] loved it. Baconery took off from there." Since his first makeshift test kitchen experiments, the menu at the Baconery on New York's Upper West Side hasn't changed very much. Most of the core items that Klein first baked for coworkers in 2011 are still on the menu, like those chocolate chip bacon cookies and the beloved thick-cut bacon dipped in high-quality chocolate. That hasn't stopped the menu from expanding into seasonal and monthly specials though, including the latest Valentine's Day treats like marshmallow hearts with bacon sprinkles, red velvet bacon cake balls, and chocolate-covered bacon with "naughty" phrases. But it's not all sweets and pastries at Baconery. On Saturdays, Klein and his team are already planning to expand their Saturday bacon mac and cheese nights to an all-weekend affair, and their monthly caramel apple bacon doughnuts to a weekend morning pick-me-up. "Our fan base has definitely grown. We get a lot of regular local and international press, and of course we have our repeat customers," Klein explains. All that press — from features on the Travel Channel to The New York Times — has definitely paid off. This weekend alone, the Baconery staff will be working non-stop to fill more than 100 orders for Valentine's Day. The company also has plans to build a worldwide franchise on their salty-sweet products and hopes to become a recognized brand on store shelves with bacon ice cream and bacon cookies. So with all this hype and Valentine's Day just around the corner, we had to see the specialty bacon bakery for ourselves. And after visiting with Wesley Klein and trying all his bacon sweets, we have to agree with him: "Life is just better with bacon."
So you want a glass of whiskey, but you don't want ice. It shouldn't cost you more, should it? Bloomberg Businessweek's Devin Leonard shared a cautionary tale about a "nefarious" up-charge that was thrust upon him when he ordered a whiskey, neat. He went to a reputable burger joint, BLT Burger, in Manhattan's Greenwich Village and asked for "a Woodford, straight up." He clarified a second time that he didn't want any ice. After downing the drink and eating the meal, it happened. The drink was $13, which isn't totally outrageous in Manhattan. But tacked on to it was a $2 charge for "neat." Whaaaat? A travesty! Leonard described what happened next: I asked my waitress to clarify. She summoned the manager, a friendly young guy. He told me with a smile that I got extra Woodford without ice. He said this explained the extra charge. What’s more, he told me that this was common practice in the city. “Well, this is the first time I’ve ever seen it,” I responded, adding that my bourbon wasn’t exactly jumbo-sized. “Oh, no, sir,” he assured me. “Everybody does it.” They offered me another one free, just to make up. Business Insider energy reporter Rob Wile had the exact same experience in the same restaurant. But is a lack-of-ice charge really a common practice? Leonard had never seen it happen before, so he called up the folks at the Bartender Boot Camp. Jordan Goldman, the manager, asked a pair of his instructors. “One of them said he’d never heard of the practice,” Goldman told him. “The other one said the only time she’d done it was when she worked in a restaurant in a catering hall. They would charge two dollars. She got complaints all the time.” I've never seen it either so I insta-polled the Business Insider newsroom. Most people said they hadn't seen it, but a few confirmed the up-charge's existence in other establishments. Business Insider military and defense editor Robert Johnson noted that he had worked in many places where a whiskey without ice is more. Strategy reporter Max Nisen said that he'd stumbled upon the charge too, prompting him to exit the bar immediately thereafter. Video producer Robert Libetti, a former bartender, shared his experiences with up-charges as well. "I can say I've seen and used the up-charge," he said. "But if I remember correctly it was never used when serving something neat. It was only done when making a cocktail 'up,' like a martini or Manhattan for example." One thing's for sure — people don't like being up-charged like that. Make sure you're on the lookout for it, just in case. Have you run into an extra charge for whiskey, neat? Where? Let us know in the comments. FREE AppDownload
Spencer Platt/Getty ImagesA mixture of sleet and snow is already falling on New York City, and it's only expected to get worse this afternoon and into the evening.  Mayor Micheal Bloomberg told New Yorkers to head out early Friday in a radio interview this morning, The Wall Street Journal reports.  Blizzard conditions will make travel hazardous. Seriously — this thing looks pretty threatening, even from space! New York's Metropolitan Transit Authority has a complete roundups of recommended storm preparations here. The MTA has warned it will shut down bus service before the worst of the storm hits, and work on the subway for this weekend has been canceled. Some lines that normally run express will be operating on local tracks. The 1/2/3 and 7 trains are running with delays. The LIRR and Metro-North are running extra early afternoon trains to get people out of the city. Evening service may be suspended if conditions are bad enough.  Amtrak is suspending service from New York City to Boston starting Friday afternoon. The Mayor will update New Yorkers on the city's response to the winter storm at 1 p.m. You can watch the press conference live at nyc.gov.  New York City can expect a total snow accumulation of 10 to 14 inches by Saturday.  FREE AppDownload
UGA College of Ag | FlickrNow, most of the posters on WSO aren’t managing anyone yet or even have anyone below them on the totem pole for at least a few years, but those that will (or have) may benefit from this post. There are literally hundreds of threads talking about how to deal with bosses and colleagues but rarely do you find one discussing how to treat those beneath you. More importantly, it’s probably going to happen sooner than you think. Unfortunately, I’ve seen even the BEST analysts fail and make countless mistakes when managing down while they have no problem with managing up. We’re so used to sucking up and playing politics as the lowest guy on the totem pole that we have no idea what to do when a wide-eyed 20-21 year old is thrust into our cubicle by the staffer. The first rule is, leave the abuse at home. I was in one of the more fratty groups at my BB but even if the entire group “hazed” the interns/first years collectively, always treat your INDIVIDUAL intern(s) with respect. I don’t care if you got beaten with rulers or had printers thrown at you during your first year, but you are not to repeat the same behavior. This seems like common sense, but many times I’ve seen great analysts decide that because they went through hell, they have the right to make others feel the same pain (or at least 50% of the pain they did) and it’s okay because you can say, “Hey, I went through way worse man.” No one cares about your life story, stop being a f--king d---. Second thing I see a lot is that the good analysts are about 3000% more efficient than any new associate or analyst. They usually give some work to the junior and then realize that it’s taking him/her five times as long to do it. Even worse, you’ll think, “This intern/1st year is constantly bothering me with questions every 5 minutes! F--- it, I’ll just do it all myself.” NO! As tempting as it may be to just do everything yourself in 2 hours and leave for the night, take the time to delegate the work. And I don’t mean just give the intern bullshit work such as changing fonts. Yes, the intern should be doing even up to 80% of the b---- work, but make sure that he’s also doing something interesting/useful. It will take a longer time to teach someone something more complicated, but you’ll be paid dividends when he/she is able to take all the future tasks of that type and complete it for you efficiently. This even goes against rule #1, which is that some senior analysts try to be TOO nice. Not giving someone any work is not being nice, you’re actually just stifling them and creating a useless intern/analyst that is going to piss off someone more senior later down the road when they realize that this junior kid knows nothing and can create nothing of value. Take the time to teach and delegate! Finally, make sure that the new kid feels part of the team. Banking is all about the time you put in and no one can stand 100+ hour weeks without the bantering and joking around that happens in the bullpen. Obviously as a senior analyst you will have thousands of inside stories/jokes with your fellow colleagues that the intern/1st year is not in on. Explain to him/her the context and involve them in your conversations. Now the important part of the article, WHAT’S IN IT FOR YOU? After all, we’re all immoral greedy no-good selfish p----s according to the media, why are you helping someone else? The answer is, how you treat the new blood can have a huge impact on how easy your 2nd year is. First of all, everyone is usually assigned work by the staffer. But of course you can also request who to work with. You would think that all the new blood would want to work with the best. Yes, but that’s not the only factor and was not the case when one the best analysts in my group was actually a huge dick. Therefore, he missed out on the best 1st years for the rest of his stint because he kept regaling them with stories about how he was abused and shit on his first year. They nodded and tried to sympathize but in the end, they tried to avoid him at all costs. By being friendly, respectful and inclusive, the senior analysts who treated the new blood well were able to have their pick of the litter. They were able to actually leave at 7pm or 8pm some nights because any new analyst is usually eager as hell to start working and learning and were well prepared to do so thanks to proper management and delegation. Read more of this piece on Wall Street Oasis&gt; This article originally appeared at Wall Street Oasis.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
From NASA: The satellite image, captured at 9:01 a.m. EST (on Feb. 8), shows clouds associated with the western frontal system stretching from Canada through the Ohio and Tennessee valleys, into the Gulf of Mexico. The comma-shaped low pressure system located over the Atlantic, east of Virginia, is forecast to merge with the front and create a powerful nor'easter. The National Weather Service expects the merged storm to move northeast and drop between two to three feet of snow in parts of New England. NASA
Flickr/CUNY Academic CommonsNumi Advisory has advised over 200 clients by providing career coaching, mock interviews, and resume reviews for people seeking jobs in equity research and investment management (full bio at the bottom of this article). Few things in this world strike as much terror into the hearts of eager bankers looking to move to the buy-side as the infamous hedge fund case study. Protesters from the Occupy movement failing to shower for months at a time, or Peter Jackson deciding to split the remaining two Hobbit movies into 19 movies might also be scary – but even they pale in comparison. But that’s why you read this site: to learn how to swat away your competition like flies, overcome the biggest challenges, and win offers (you’ll have to look elsewhere for help with Peter Jackson). Today we’re starting a multi-part series on hedge fund case studies, and I’m going to give away for free more actionable information, tips, and real examples than what other training providers would charge you $10,000+ for. As The Joker might say, “It’s not about money… it’s about sending a message.” We’ll leave out the second part of that quote about everything burning, at least until we reach the end of this series. Our interviewee has had a ton of experience in the finance industry, ranging from equity research to private equity to hedge funds – and I convinced him to share all his best tips with you. He contributed the interviews on equity research over a year ago, and this series will be even better. Let’s jump right into it: Assumptions &amp; Background Information Q: So we haven’t sat down for an interview since that series on equity research. What’s new? A: Sure – since the last time we chatted, I’ve graduated from business school and have been through the recruiting process at hedge funds. I am currently an analyst at a long/short equity fund. I’m still helping clients break into equity research, private equity, and hedge funds as well. In the past, I’ve worked in private equity, equity research, and hedge funds (both internships and full-time), and I’ve completed case studies at every step along the way – so I wanted to sit down with you and explain the process, why it’s so important for buy-side recruiting, and how to make your own case studies successful. Why Do Case Studies Matter So Much in Hedge Fund Interviews? Q: Well, sounds like you’ve been quite busy (to say the least). Let’s start from the beginning: why do case studies matter so much in hedge fund interviews? A: Here are the top 3 reasons: Also, very, very few candidates actually customize their stock pitch and/or case study to the specific strategy that a fund uses… so even by using relatively simple strategies, you can stand out. As you always say, don’t overestimate the competition. Q: So it seems like these case studies could also be a way to break in if you’re coming from a very different or unconventional background? A: Yes. Unlike large banks that run very standardized recruiting processes and look for very standard types of candidates, many hedge funds are more open about who they’ll speak to… IF you can prove that you have solid investment ideas and that you’re passionate about investing. The industry has gotten super-competitive over the past 10-15 years, and it is generally getting smaller – but if you can make a lot of money for a potential employer, there will always be room for you. In practice, of course, most people at hedge funds still come from investment banking, equity research, or trading backgrounds – but especially at smaller funds, they care more about your P&amp;L than your pedigree. What Are Hedge Fund Case Studies? Q: Yeah, that matches what I’ve seen from clients going through the HF recruiting process. Before we move on, can you tell us what exactly a “case study” is? A: Sure, I should probably define that one at some point… In hedge fund interviews, “case studies” are very informal. 90% of the time they will tell you: And… that’s it. It’s up to you to come up with the structure, pick the industry and find the company, and anticipate their key questions in advance. Unlike private equity case studies, these case studies are far less structured and they want to see how well you can function without much direction. Occasionally, you will get case studies where they give you a specific company and then give you a few hours to look at its financial statements, filings, and industry research and form your own opinion – but “open-ended” case studies tend to dominate. Q: So unlike PE case studies, where you’re focused on IRR and determining whether or not buying out a company could generate your targeted return, with HF case studies it sounds like it’s more about valuation. A: Partially, yes. Valuation is more important in these open-ended case studies because you can pick pretty much any company – it’s not like a leveraged buyout case study where they’ll give you a company or deal and you’re constrained by that. But the main difference is that HF case studies and public markets investing in general are all about asymmetric risk profiles: cases where the upside potential is significantly greater than the downside potential. So you’re not necessarily targeting a certain IRR – instead, you’re thinking: “This stock is currently at $25.00 per share. I think there’s a 75% chance it could increase to $30.00, and only a 25% chance that it will fall to $20.00, so I recommend investing because…” The other big difference is that catalysts are much more important in these case studies – it’s not enough to estimate the probabilities and argue what a stock’s “expected value” is. You need to say, “I think it will change because of Event X,” where Event X is something like a new customer, a new product, regulatory changes, a competitor’s strategy, a refinancing or change in capital structure, or anything else you could think of. Finally, risk factors and mitigating risk are essential for hedge fund case studies: you still consider them in PE case studies, but often you can’t make extremely specific recommendations to mitigate the risk when you’re acquiring an entire company. Q: Awesome. We’re going to delve into the structure of these stock pitches and case studies in Part 2. But just to get everyone thinking about it, can you explain how you’d usually structure your recommendations? A: Sure… we’ll go into this in more detail in the next part of the series, but here’s what I usually use: 1) Recommendation: ”Neutral” recommendations are not ideal, so are you long or short this stock? What do you think it’s worth and how much would you pay for it? 2) Company Background: Introduce what the company does and state what its current market cap and valuation multiples are. 3) Your Investment Thesis: Give 2-3 points about why you think the stock is price imperfectly – these can be both quantitative and qualitative factors, but they must be specific to the company (i.e. don’t say, “Well, the economy could crash…”). This will be the bulk of your presentation or write-up. 4) Catalysts: So you think the stock is priced imperfectly and is worth $X when its current share price is $Y… but what will push it to $X? Many people miss this part completely, which can sink your chances. 5) Valuation: Support your view of what the company is worth by using the standard methodologies: public comps, precedent transactions, DCF or other intrinsic value analyses, and so on. 6) Risk Factors and How to Mitigate Them: Remember that hedge funds are always looking for investments with asymmetric risk profiles. All investments have potential downsides as well, and in this section you discuss those and explain that, while they exist, there’s still a greater chance of your own thesis being true. In that last part on Risk Factors, you also explain how to hedge against the possibility that you’re wrong. Much of the Q&amp;A that takes place after you make your pitch will revolve around understanding potential sources of downside. Q: Awesome… we’ll go into those points in more detail later, but any more thoughts before we move on? A: Not really – the 2 most overlooked points are the catalysts and risk factors you select, so if you’re preparing to pitch stocks or you’re getting ready for hedge fund interviews right now, you need to think about those in advance for any idea you come up with. My only other point is that you must be very confident in your recommendation and explanation. Many candidates go into interviews without a clear conviction behind their ideas – which is the fastest way to fail. Your analysis can be spot on, but if you can’t convince your portfolio manager to put money behind your idea, you won’t have a long-lasting career in this industry. When and Where Will You Get Them? Q: OK, so where do these case studies usually come up in the recruiting process? A: It’s not standardized – sometimes they’ll give you case studies in advance, and sometimes they’ll be in later rounds of the recruiting process. Often the bigger funds will ask you to complete them upfront as an initial screen, but they could still ask you to complete similar case studies later on as you’ve advanced through a few rounds of recruiting. Also at bigger funds, you’ll meet more people and they may mix it up by giving you both the “open-ended case studies” and the ones where they ask you to look at a specific company and make an investment recommendation. I’ve heard some people having to complete as many as 6 or 8 case studies during the recruiting process, but I personally think that is excessive. Unless you really want to work at that fund or don’t have other options, you should consider pushing back if this happens. The process and structure are the same regardless of whether you get an “open-ended case study” or one with a specific company, but you save a lot of time with the latter type of case study. Q: Speaking of time, how much time do you have to complete these case studies? A: You need to ask them for an explicit time limit. Many people hear something like, “Take your time!” because hedge funds tend to be informal, and then they make the mistake of thinking they really can “take their time.” But that’s the wrong approach – when they say something like that, your next question has to be: “When do you need it by? Do you have any formatting and presentation requirements?” Generally it’s in your best interest to respond to them within a few days at the most – and yes, you will be working like a madman during those few days, especially if you’re also working full-time. It takes time to comb through filings, research competitors, call suppliers and customers, and so on – so it’s almost impossible to do a thorough job with all of those in a day or less. Differences at Different Funds? Q: So far we’ve been focused on pitching “companies” and making long/short recommendations, but what if it’s not a long/short equity fund? What types of case studies would you encounter at a global macro, credit, merger arbitrage, or distressed fund? A: You’ll still get case studies there, but you’ll analyze different assets: currencies, debt, or distressed companies rather than healthy ones. With something like merger arbitrage (or anything else that’s event-driven), you can still apply the same framework but the catalyst becomes a much more central part of your recommendation. The risk factors and mitigants will also differ: at long/short equity funds, the main risk is the stock price moving in the opposite direction, but at an event-driven fund the main risk might be the event not happening or not happening in the way you expected. At a distressed fund, the main risk might be the company going bankrupt and not being able to sell off its assets for the expected price. You could still mitigate some of these risks with stop losses or protective options, but you need to think through how the investment strategy of the fund will result in different types of risks. Q: Great! Thanks for explaining that. Anything else to add in terms of different types of case studies at different fund types? A: Let’s see… I focused on long/short equity funds and long-only funds in my recruiting, and I generally found that long/short equity funds asked for case study write-ups more often. The long-only funds still asked for stock pitches, but sometimes it was more informal and just consisted of a brief presentation. Also, make yourself aware of the firm’s specific strategy within the overall category… for example, if it’s a fund that runs a pair trade, market-neutral strategy, you should come up with trades that have a well-thought-out long and short idea. They won’t tell you that, of course, but you significantly improve your chances if you match your recommendations to the specifics of their strategy. What (Else) Hedge Funds Really Want to See Q: Yeah, those are all great points. Previous interviewees have mentioned that hedge funds still care about your story, knowledge of the markets, passion for investing, and so on – anything you want to add to that list? A: Two things I’ll add: Q: Those are both great points. I see #2 with our coaching clients all the time – they just describe the process behind a deal instead of saying whether or not they think it was a good idea in the first place. Can you explain more about what you mean for #1? A: Sure… let’s say you’re in an interview and say, “In investment banking, I’ve learned how to run comps and build M&amp;A models. I think those are going to be very useful wherever else I go.” That’s one way to say it, but you’re not explaining how your skills would help the PM make money. It’s all features and no benefits. Instead of that description above, you could say, “After a few years in investment banking, I feel very confident in my valuation and M&amp;A modeling skills, and I’ve used them to think about event-driven investing after being exposed to a few M&amp;A deals that almost closed but then fell apart, and vice versa. I’m confident I could use these same skills to analyze pending M&amp;A deals for your firm and help you make money by finding the right opportunities to bet on or bet against.” You need to get yourself in the “What’s in it for them?” mindset. You can’t go into an interview without considering how you’ll help the interviewer make money and what kind of ROI he’ll get by hiring you. Getting Into the Case Study Mindset Q: Agreed – that’s why it’s one of my favorite topics to cover on the site. I don’t think I’ll ever get tired of repeating those points. Before we jump into structuring your case study and the technical side in more detail, any more thoughts on how to get into the right mindset for interviews? A: Your biggest obstacle moving over from the sell-side will be the failure to consider the potential downside and the risk factors. So before you even start writing your recommendation, check the most bullish equity research report if you’re making a short recommendation. And check the most bearish equity research report if you’re making a long recommendation, just to verify that you’ve considered the most obvious points already. NOTE ABOUT EQUITY RESEARCH: Just to clarify this comment above: do NOT rely on equity research to form your investment thesis. Instead, you want to use it as a “sanity check” and possibly as a way to find some of your data. But as you’ll see in Part 2, you should NOT get your actual investment ideas directly from the research, and you shouldn’t rely on it to back up your thesis. Q: You’re assuming that the “sell” rating actually exists. It seems like it’s an endangered species sometimes. A: Yeah. Maybe someday it will go the way of the blue whale. But until that happens, it’s worth considering a wide range of views on the company. In banking and even many research teams, you’re always focused on “robust growth expectations” and showing off how great the client is. You need to take completely the opposite view at hedge funds, so you should get yourself into the mindset long before you start writing your own case study. I can’t overstate the importance of having a clear view about margin of safety for a particular investment, and to get there, you need to figure out what the risks are and why you still think the risk/reward profile is favorable toward the “reward” side. Also, to go back to your point, you don’t actually need to find a report with a “sell” rating – even a less optimistic “hold” or “buy” report could work. Q: Great tips. So, let’s move into the structure in more detail, how to find ideas, and the technical side of case studies… A: Wait, isn’t that coming up next time? Q: Good point – stay tuned! And thanks for your time. A: My pleasure. Coming Up Next When we do a multi-part series here, we don’t mess around. Here’s what’s coming up next in Parts 2, 3, and 4: Let the fun begin. Numi Advisory has advised over 200 clients by providing career coaching, mock interviews, and resume reviews for people seeking jobs in equity research and investment management. With extensive investment experience in equity research and private equity and now working as an analyst at a long/short equity hedge fund, Numi has unparalleled insights into the recruiting process and advancing on the job. Numi customizes solutions to each client’s unique background and career aspirations, and teaches clients the most efficient and impactful methods to achieve successful results on their career search. He has helped place over 50 candidates in leading buy-side and sell-side jobs. For more information on career services and client testimonials, please contact numi.advisory@gmail.com, or visit Numi’s LinkedIn page. FREE AppDownload
Bloomberg TVSociété Générale FX strategist Sebastien Galy thinks the second half of 2013 will be very interesting for markets. In a note titled "Asset rotation or something more sinister? Pre-Lehman vs now," Galy writes that once the market is able to anticipate a Fed tightening, which he thinks will happen "most probably" in the second half of this year, "we will see a rising U.S. Treasury 10-year yield drive all before it, leading to a brutal reallocation of risk." Galy says bonds are in a bubble, but the market isn't collapsing as funds rotate into equities. He warns that "the pace of that rotation may be enough to create this collapse," but he says the conditions for a collapse don't appear to be set, at least in the short-term, with global economic data on an upswing. "The difference with the last crisis is that the leverage is lower and different," writes Galy. "It is in fixed income and hence credit." The SocGen strategist expands a bit on just where the leverage may be hiding this time: Leverage is now most probably at the level of retail investors or hidden in balance sheets (e.g. swaps of collateral done for pension funds and insurance companies on the balance sheet of banks). It seems that we are seeing investors reduce their concentration of positions in fixed income and credit. Sovereign wealth funds first moved to very low durations to avoid the risk and are presumably in the process of rotating their credit risk away from areas that would be hit by a repricing of risk. That means a translation up in the quality spectrum and away from deep concentration of risks (e.g. U.S.). It suggests a demand for T-bills rather than financial paper in the U.S., for example. Galy predicts that the "brutal reallocation" he foresees later this year "will be a strange event with some side casualties on the credit side," but a supportive economic environment and attractive valuations following a selloff should bring investors back to markets quickly once the dust settles. MORE: ANALYSTS: A Mad Rush Could Be Coming In The Corporate Credit Markets &gt; FREE AppDownload
Michael Bloomberg has very close ties to London. The New York Times has a great feature out this morning on just how close now that he's building an impressive building for Bloomberg LP there. For several years the NYC Mayor has had a $20 million residence in the city, donated to its charities, met with its celebrities and politicians, and even befriended royalty. In fact, the NYT reports, Bloomberg was even a guest at Prince Charles' estate in Scotland. Pretty impressive right? Not for the billionaire Mayor of NYC. He'd rather sleep on his private jet. From NYT: Even the Royal Family was in his sights. Mr. Bloomberg once spent a night at Prince Charles’s home in Scotland, known as Birkhall. The mayor, who keeps luxurious homes himself, later told an aide to Mr. Johnson he had been unimpressed: “Won’t stay there again,” he said, of the vast estate. Mr. Bloomberg has held parties at his two-story apartment on exclusive Cadogan Square, although his mayoralty makes it hard to spend a lot of time there: Bermuda is a two-hour flight, but a trip to London would leave him less than prepared in an emergency. Nowadays, he often spends less than 24 hours at a time in London, preferring to sleep on his private jet. The royal treatment — not enough for a man who rides the subway every day. FREE AppDownload
www.nasa.govRemember that Q4  GDP report that came in at 0.1%? It won't stay negative. From Nomura: Data releases today each had a significant impact on our Q4 GDP tracking model, but on net the change was a small positive. We began the day with Q4 GDP tracking a decline of -0.1%, matching the BEA's advanced estimate. Better-than-expected December trade data lifted Q4 tracking to 0.6%, but December wholesale inventory data pushed it back down to 0.2%. The trade deficit narrowed sharply in December, much more so than the BEA's original assumption in its Q4 GDP estimate. The December trade gap was the narrowest since January 2010. Exports jumped by 2.1% in December while imports dropped by 2.7%. Imports tend to reflect movements in inventories and the large inventory drawdown reported in Q4 suggested that imports had declined. FREE AppDownload
MTA / Creative CommonsAs the Nor'easter hits New York city, blizzard conditions will make travel extremely dangerous.  Airlines have already cancelled close to 3,000 flights within, to, or from the U.S. on Friday; 815 flights are already cancelled on Saturday. The MTA: New York's Metropolitan Transit Authority has warned it will shut down bus service before the worst of the storm hits, and work on the subway for this weekend has been canceled. To keep subways running, it will activate its impressive arsenal of equipment, including four jet powered snow throwers than can remove 3,000 tons of snow in an hour. Some lines that normally run express will be operating on local tracks. The 1/2/3 and 7 trains are running with delays. The Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority is suspending all service, including subways, buses, commuter rail and boats starting at 3:30 p.m. on Friday, Feb. 8.  Trains: Amtrak is suspending service from New York City to Boston starting Friday afternoon. The LIRR and Metro-North are working to keep tracks clear of snow and trains running in the cold conditions.  Both railroads are running extra afternoon trains to get people out of the city. Evening service may be suspended if conditions are bad enough. Power: The National Weather Service has warned of scattered powered outages. "This isn't [superstorm] Sandy," says News12 meteorologist Brysen Van Eck. "There isn't going to be widespread trees across highways. It won't take us days to recover." ConEdison customers can report downed power lines and outages here. FREE AppDownload
AP ImagesDavid Einhorn, the founder of Greenlight Capital, is one of the most closely followed hedge fund managers. When he talks about a company, the stock is likely to move and even he knows it.  "Apparently now I'm a verb," Einhorn jokingly told the audience at the Value Investing Congress last fall showing an article with the word "Einhorned" in the headline. Yesterday, Einhorn made headlines after taking aim at Apple's massive cash reserves it has on its balance sheet.  Greenlight also said it's going to sue Apple in New York federal court to prevent a new proposal to prevent the issuance of preferred stock. Now let's take the time to get to know this hedge fund hot-shot better.  (Lisa Du contributed to this report) FREE AppDownload
World Economic ForumIncoming BoE Governor Mark CarneyAlbert Edwards is "not happy," he tells clients in his latest note. The bearish Société Générale strategist's mood has been soured in part by incoming Bank of England Governor Mark Carney's testimony before the British Treasury Committee yesterday, which Edwards says was a "classic example of Central Bank 'bull'." The episode confirmed his view that the most dangerous thing out there right now is central bankers' overconfidence in their own abilities to support economies and avoid unwanted inflation. The SocGen strategist even goes so far as to compare Carney to Alan Greenspan, saying the former Federal Reserve Chairman's "post-crash accolade – ‘probably one of the most ruinous central bankers ever’ - may even be up for grabs." Below is Edwards' take on Carney's testimony yesterday (emphases his): And while we are on the theme of mission creep, the incoming Bank of England Governor Mark Carney has given the clear impression from his statements over recent weeks that he does not agree with Mervyn King’s comments that QE is reaching the limits of effectiveness. Carney is willing to be much more aggressive – at least George Osborne will be pleased. In his evidence on Thursday to the Treasury select committee he repeated his idea that if existing QE measures fell short, central banks should consider shifting to targeting nominal gross domestic product, which would allow them to respond much more aggressively to a downturn in economic output and place as much weight on supporting growth as reining in inflation. Now personally I have no great ideological attachment to inflation targeting as opposed to any other method to control inflation, but I note with alarm the tendency of policymakers to become more and more interventionist in their monetary experiments. It may be that central bankers will keep control of the tiger they are riding, but history suggests that central bank intervention may make things worse in the long run rather than better. Marc Faber’s comment that he is so bearish that he sometimes wants to throw himself out of the window really resonates with me when I see what the central bankers are doing. In 2005 I described Alan Greenspan as an economic war criminal when most others had decided he was “the greatest central banker who ever lived”, Hence I note with alarm that some commentators are so excited about the appointment of Mark Carney to the Bank of England Governorship that now he Carney, is now being dubbed “the world’s greatest central banker”. Oh dear! From everything I have read so far I fear that in the fullness of time he will have more similarities with Alan Greenspan than just this unwanted accolade and his legacy will be equally destructive. Edwards goes on to compare Carney to Rudolf von Havenstein – the central banker that presided over Weimar Germany's post-war hyperinflation – writing, "Let’s see if we can see any of the Rudolf in Mark Carney’s reflection?" He cites a piece written by former colleague Dylan Grice, who after examining Havenstein's story concluded in his own note, "The fact is we do understand the economics of inflation...and we know that once you’re on that path it can be extremely difficult to get off it." "I wish Mark Carney, the new Bank of England Governor the very best of luck," Edwards writes, "and if, as I suspect, monetary mission creep accelerates under his governorship, he will need all the luck in the world." MORE: The Hottest Central Banker In The World Isn't Sold On NGDP Targeting &gt; FREE AppDownload
The New York Times has an awesome feature out this morning about NYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg's activity in London. Well, perhaps the word "activity" isn't quite strong enough. Over the years, Bloomberg has become a pillar of London society, all the while running the greatest city on the other side of the pond. He's given money to charities, made friends with royals, donated to political campaigns, bought a $20 million home, and, of course, become a confidante/mentor to his counterpart in London, Mayor Boris Johnson. Johnson, known for his blunt speak, told the NYT about the first time he met Bloomberg. The NYC Mayor was talking about his crusade against trans fats (now banned in NYC restaurants) and Johnson got a little confused. NYT: “I didn’t know what trans fats were,” Mr. Johnson said, a glint in his eye. “I thought it had something to do with transsexuals, obese transsexuals, or something. Anyway, he made a great deal about that.” Since the two Mayors hang out pretty regularly now, Johnson probably knows all about the issue now, though. Read the full article at NYT&gt; FREE AppDownload
Zilberman Sands Photography / FlickrFrom Dave Lutz at Stifel, Nicolaus, a 10-second guide to what traders are talking about this morning: Theme of selling EU and buying US protection, but tailwinds are strong for the EUR slide to be short-lived?  // Mutual Fund Inflows continue to drive the afternoon session higher, and the market’s sideways action is coiling a spring // As the Fed’s balance sheet expand, relative to the ECB – This presses the EUR higher relative to the $ // Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said on Friday that the yen has weakened more than intended – Yen Jumps, hitting Nikkei // China Trade data points to strong growth – Shanghai hits key resistance into week long holiday // Gold continues to consolidate in $$’s as we get mixed Inflation signals // The “Carry Trade” is rolling over on Yen surge – potential headwind for Global Equities in the near term // Discretionary names were hit sharply yesterday, one of best performing US sectors YTD // India’s Sensex fell for a seventh consecutive session, next week’s data a “buy the news?” // Federal Reserve official pointed to signs of overheating in some corners of the credit markets – watch HY as the ETFs break support on heavy outflows // Platts says Saudi cut production again in January, and China Imports drive Brent higher // WTI discount near a record, Great for Refiners, but not US consumers // Retail Bullishness just posted the largest two-week decline since last July.  FREE AppDownload
Screenshot via WeatherbellThe pieces are coming together for a major snow storm. A potentially historic Nor'easter is about to dump up to two feet of snow on parts of the Northeast. Here's what you need to know: How much snow? An area from New York City to Maine is expected to get as much as one to two feet of snow, according the latest advisory from the National Weather Service. Coastal New England may get as much as three feet of snow, according to The Weather Channel.  Why is this such a big storm?  This massive weather system is a combination of two storms: one coming out of the Midwest and one tracking up the East Coast. As the systems merge, we can expect heavy snow and strong winds.  Power  Power outages are a major concern. Fifty million people are in the path of the potentially historic storm, according to NPR's Mark Memmot. The Boston Globe's meteorologist David Epstein recommends keeping your home a few degrees warmer tonight in case the power does go out, but says that the snow won't be the heavy, wet kind that weighs down power lines.   Travel Blizzard conditions will make travel extremely dangerous.  Airlines have already cancelled close to 3,000 flights within, to, or from the U.S. on Friday; 815 flights are already cancelled on Saturday. Amtrak is suspending service from New York City to Boston starting Friday afternoon.  The MTA has a complete roundup of storm preparation here. Some lines that normally run express will be operating on local tracks. The LIRR and Metro-North are running extra early afternoon trains to get people out of the city. Evening service may be suspended if conditions are bad enough.  Closings and Emergencies Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island have declared states of emergencies.  The Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority is suspending all service, including subways, buses, commuter rail and boats starting at 3:30 p.m. on Friday, Feb. 8. Schools are closed in Boston.  New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg is encouraging people to go home early Friday ahead of the blizzard.  Timeline Here's the weather outlook for New York City: Friday: Chance of precipitation is 100 percent. Expect a mixture of snow and rain. A total daytime snow accumulation of 2 to 5 inches is possible. Temperatures will remain in the upper 30s, falling to around 30 this afternoon. Wind gusts of 25 mph, with gusts as high as 40 mph this afternoon.  Friday night: Snow, heavy at times. Additional snow accumulation of 6 to 10 inches. Windy with lows in the mid 20s. North winds 20 to 25 mph with gusts up to 40 mph.  Saturday: Snow likely in the morning, mainly before noon, then a gradual clearing and then partly sunny in the afternoon. Total snow accumulation of 10 to 14 inches is possible.  Here's the latest snowfall forecast from Wunderground: Wunderground FREE AppDownload
US firm Las Vegas Sands said on Friday that it will go ahead with the construction of a vast casino project near Madrid which could create up to 200,000 jobs, the Madrid regional government said. Six years after unveiling the contested project, the company run by US billionaire Sheldon Adelson will build the project on 750 hectares (1,850 acres) of land in Alcorcon, located about 15 kilometres (10 miles) southwest of the Spanish capital, the head of the regional government of Madrid, Ignacio Gonzalez, said. "We expect to launch the first rock at the end of the year," he told a news conference. The "Eurovegas" project calls for the construction of four casino complexes with 12 hotels providing 36,000 rooms, nine theatres, three golf courses, and convention centres over a period of 10-15 years. The Madrid region fought hard to lure in the project at a time when Spain is grappling with a record unemployment rate of 26 percent. Last year Las Vegas Sands, the world's biggest casino company by market value, chose Madrid over Barcelona for the project after months of talks with the two competing cities but the exact location where it would be built was only unveiled on Friday. Alcorcon beat out two other locations near Madrid, Valdecarros and Paracuellos-Torrejon, in the race to host the project. Opponents complain that public money will be used for a private project while Spaniards are suffering from cuts in public services. A protest group, Eurovegas No, said it would demonstrate in Madrid later Friday. Critics fear the casinos will spawn prostitution and crime, and a return to the excesses of Spain's property bubble, which imploded in 2008 triggering a double recession. Las Vegas Sands operates The Venetian and The Palazzo casinos in Las Vegas and Marina Bay Sands in Singapore, as well as properties in Macao. Copyright (2013) AFP. All rights reserved.  FREE AppDownload
Rich Kaszeta/FlickrNEW YORK (AP) — McDonald's says a key sales figure dropped again in January as the world's biggest hamburger chain struggled with ongoing weakness in Japan and supply chain issues in China. The Oak Brook, Ill.-based company said global sales at restaurants open at least 13 months dropped 1.9 percent for the month. The figure is a key metric because it strips out the volatility of newly opened and closed locations. After years of outperforming rivals, McDonald's has been struggling amid intensifying competition and challenging economic conditions around the world. Late last year, the company ousted the head of its U.S. business after the sales figure dropped for the first time in nearly a decade. CEO Don Thompson, who took the top spot this summer, has vowed to add business by focusing on value while planning a series of new limited-time offers to attract customers. In the region encompassing Asia, the Middle East and Africa, however, McDonald's said its sales sank 9.5 percent in January. Like Yum Brands, which owns KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell, McDonald's is dealing with wariness among diners after reports on national Chinese television that chicken producers were ignoring regulators and giving the birds unapproved levels of antibiotics. In Europe, the company's biggest market, the figure fell 2.1 percent. Germany and France dragged down results. The company said it remains focused on enhanced value and keeping stores open longer in the region. In the U.S., McDonald's said the figure edged up 0.9 percent, helped by the addition of the Grilled Onion Cheddar burger to the Dollar Menu. FREE AppDownload
Findus via Daily MailLyndon Lea, the boss of the private equity firm linked to Findus, is a financier straight out of central casting. As a keen polo player, he owns a ranch in Santa Barbara, California and leads the Zacara team. Lea has enjoyed success with Zacara, which is named after his children, with the team winning the Veuve Clicquot Gold Cup in 2011 and the US Open Polo Championship in 2012. The 44-year-old's polo exploits have also led to Lea gaining a reputation for his party lifestyle. Stories to emerge from the ranch in California include parties with sushi served on half-naked women and a polo soiree attended by Sienna Miller and Tommy Lee Jones. Lea himself is keen to play down his "playboy" reputation. In a recent interview, he said: “Because of our focus on high–profile brands there has been a certain scrutiny of my personal life.” Now, however, Lea is set to come under the spotlight for an entirely different connection to horses. A beef lasagne made by Findus, which is part owned by Lea's Lion Capital, has been found to contain 100pc horse meat. Lea has risen to become one of the world’s leading financiers after being born in Morecambe, Lancashire as the son of an engineer father and hairdresser mother. The 44-year-old grew up in South Africa and Canada after leaving Lancashire when he was younger, before studying business at the University of Ontario in Canada. After graduating, he joined Goldman Sachs in New York. Lea returned to the UK in the 1990s to join Glenisla, part of US private equity house KKR. Lion Capital was founded by Lea in 2005. The company has made millions by buying and selling a string of well-known brands, including La Senza and Weetabix. Lion Capital first invested in Findus in 2008. However, the private equity group is probably best-known for its success with Jimmy Choo. Lion Capital funded the rise of the luxury shoe-maker, which was founded by Tamara Mellon.  FREE AppDownload
Port of Long BeachThe latest trade balance data is out. In December, the trade deficit shrank by 20.7 percent to $38.5 billion. Reuters' Jamie McGreever noted that this was the third largest month-over-month swing in history. Economists expected the deficit to narrow to $46.0 billion. Much of this shrinkage was due to a huge decline in energy imports and a big jump in energy exports.  Bloomberg notes that this was the lowest petroleum deficit since August 2009. From TD Securities' Millan Mulraine: The main driver for the sharp improvement in the deficit was weaker import demand, as the pace of total imports declined 2.7% m/m in December. Domestic demand for imported goods were weaker across the board, with imports of industrial supplies (down 6.9% m/m) particularly weak, adding to the 3.7% m/m drop in auto imports. Petroleum imports were also lower, as both lower energy prices and imported volumes pushed the imported energy bill lower. Export activity, however, rose at a decent 2.1% m/m pace, driven mostly by the 9.6% m/m surge in export of industrial supplies. Click Here For Updates &gt; FREE AppDownload
As a potentially historic storm bears down on the Northeast, airlines have cancelled 2,901 flights within, to, or from the United States scheduled for , according to FlightAware.com. 917 such flights scheduled for Saturday have been cancelled. Some airlines have waived fees for affected passengers who want to change or cancel their reservations, including Virgin America, Southwest, and JetBlue. American Airlines has waived its ticket reissue charge for passengers flying through certain northeastern airports February 8 or 9. They may reschedule for between February 7 and 12. United Airlines has followed suit, for travelers at 30 airports in the region. Air France is allowing customers on February 8 and 9 flights to postpone their travel plans through February 12, and will offer full refunds on flights that are cancelled or delayed for more than five hours. FREE AppDownload
AP Photo/Chris PizzelloGood morning. Here's what you need to know. BI Intelligence, a new subscription research service from Business Insider, provides in-depth insight, data, and analysis of the mobile industry. Access all reports, research updates, presentations, data and chart libraries plus much more with your free trial. FREE AppDownload
Jeff J. Mitchell / Getty ImagesEuropean Union leaders are on the brink of an historic agreement to cut their seven-year budget by £30bn today after marathon all-night talks in Brussels. They edged towards agreeing the first-ever reduction in EU spending in what David Cameron would claim as a victory for the calls for budgetary restraint by him and like-minded leaders. Fifteen hours after a draft budget for 2014-20 was due to be discussed by the 27 leaders at their Brussels summit, firm figures were finally presented to them at 5am today by Herman Van Rompuy, who chairs the talks as president of the European Council. If the deal is agreed, Mr Cameron will hail it as a victory for his tough approach, which saw him demand tens of billions of euros be shaved off plans first proposed last autumn. The cuts could cut EU spending to about €500m a year below that. Last November, the EU leaders were deadlocked over Mr Van Rompuy's plan to commit €973bn to EU programmes between 2014-20. Today's draft agreement would reduce that to €960bn. A second figure on actual payments, the so-called "credit card limit," would be set at €908.4bn over the seven years. Mr Cameron, who demanded either a real terms budget freeze or cut, will be able to claim he has achieved his objectives. The draft conclusions show that he has seen off moves led by France to reduce the €3.5bn-a-year rebate on Britain's payments to the EU won by Margaret Thatcher. They say: "The existing correction mechanism for the UK will continue to apply." Britain's annual contributions are still likely to rise over the seven-year period. But Mr Cameron can blame that on Tony Blair, who agreed to reduce the value of the rebate in 2005 as the EU expanded to admit central and eastern European nations. The Prime Minister worked through the night without a break, either in formal round table sessions with all 26 other leaders or in small huddles as painstaking efforts to reach a compromise continued. After clashing with Francois Hollande, the French President, who opposed his demand for cuts and failed to turn up for talks with him and Germany's Angela Merkel yesterday, the three leaders finally held 15 minutes of peace talks early today when the full summit took a break. The cuts are likely to include the Brussels administration budget, which was targeted by the Prime Minister. A two-year pay freeze for 55,000 EU officials is one option on the table.  This article originally appeared at The Daily Telegraph.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsLately, Japan has been the country with the most aggressive easy monetary policy.  This comes in its effort to stimulate the economy.  And this has caused the yen to plunge and the stock market to surge. However, Japan's leaders may have gotten ahead of themselves.  At least that's what they're saying about. Here's a quote from Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso from Reuters: "It seems that the government's policies have fueled expectations and the yen weakened more than we intended in the move to around 90 from 78," Aso told lawmakers in the lower house budget committee. According to Morgan Stanley analysts, Japan's efforts have "changed the game," and now they're recommending to their clients to trade the global currency war. SEE MORE: MORGAN STANLEY: It's Time To Trade The 'Currency War' Basket &gt; FREE AppDownload
Despite optimism-mongering in the media and in certain quarters of Washington and elsewhere, we’ve had indication after indication in the economic data that whatever lousy progress has been made in nudging up GDP, American workers have not benefitted from it. But now we know from the horse’s mouth, so to speak: they’re mired in a tough new reality that is in many ways getting worse. “Deeply pessimistic” is the term used in the sobering survey, “Diminished Lives and Futures: A Portrait of America in the Great-Recession Era.” A confirmation of bits and pieces of economic data that has been trickling in over the years on this topic. Just yesterday, for example, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that wages adjusted for inflation had continued their morose decline: in 2012, by 0.4% after having already declined 0.5% in 2011. It doesn’t seem much. With nominal wages rising, workers might temporarily be fooled into thinking that they’re moving ahead. But enough of those declines, and pretty soon you’re talking about some real money. They compound the lingering impact of the financial crisis. “Five years of economic misery have profoundly diminished Americans’ confidence in the economy and their outlook for the next generation,” conclude the authors of the survey. And yet, since 2007, Congress borrowed $8 trillion, nearly doubling the US gross national debt to $16.48 trillion, and the Fed printed another $2.1 trillion, all under the unholy pretext of wanting to stimulate the economy [read.... Corporations Are Begging: We Need More Inflation!]. The survey draws a dire picture of the employment situation: 23% of the respondents had been laid off during the past four years. Of them, 10% spent more than two years looking for a job before they found one, and 22% still haven’t found one. While the economy has created jobs over the last few years, it has done so at a rate that barely kept up with the growth of the labor force. If that: in the 2013 survey, 58% of the respondents had a job, down from the 2010 survey, when 60% had a job. The lower income categories were hardest hit. Only 38% of those normally earning under $30,000 had jobs, while 71% of those over $60,000 had jobs. Where has all the money gone that the government borrowed and spent, and that the Fed printed? To China, Brazil, Mexico, into commodities, wars, farmland, into every conceivable financial asset, creating bubbles here and there, including the most gigantic credit bubble ever. Some people around the world have become immensely rich. And others, who’d already been immensely rich but had gotten a haircut during the financial crisis, were bailed out. Good for them. But it just hasn’t created a lot of jobs in the US. That’s the good news. The bad news: a stunning 54% of those who’d been laid off and were lucky enough to find a job, now make less money than before. Less money in nominal terms, not even adjusted for inflation. A third of them got whacked by a pay cut of 11% to 30%. Another third reported that their pay had been slashed by over 30%. Ouch! This new reality—finally finding a job but at much lower pay, or hanging on to a job but with a cut in pay—has sucked optimism out of the system. “Not only does the public not see signs of economic recovery now, they don’t see it in the near future either,” finds the report. And 32% of the people expect it to get even worse. A worrisome deterioration from 2010, when only 27% expected it to get worse. Full recovery anytime soon? Only 12% expect it in the “near future”; 25% expect it to take 6-10 years, and 29% think that the economy will “never” fully recover. Mainstream-media optimism hasn’t quite sunk in yet, apparently. They put their pessimistic finger where it hurts: GDP doesn’t measure anything but spending as a whole and is useless for individuals. Per-capita GDP, while still inadequate, would be a better measure. Alas, it’s well below the pre-recession peak, and thus silenced to death. So, 60% of the people believe that there is a “new normal,” a tough new reality where workers have to take jobs below their skill level, at lower pay, and with less job security—because they’re lucky to even find a job. To survive in this new normal, workers raided their savings. Even after all these years since the recession officially ended, 38% have “a lot less” money in savings than they had before, 18% have “a little less.” But the piggy bank is hard to refill as workers earn less, while prices continue to rise—thanks to the “bold” and “courageous” actions by the Fed. “The Great Recession’s scope and impact was so widespread and corrosive that it will likely affect individuals, families, and the nation for many years to come,” the report concludes. On the other hand, after a drunken deficit-spending frenzy by Congress that left behind a mountain of new debt, and after a delirious money-printing orgy by the Fed that left behind a debased dollar, our hapless American workers are now also saddled with banks that are too big to fail, and it turns out, “too big to jail.” With the average cost of attending college in America at $120,000, a family of four should expect their children’s college to cost more than a home. Yet, the perceived value of education provided justification for students to borrow $42 billion from the US this year. And many of them will end up as student-loan debt slaves. Read....  College Graduates Are The New Debt Slaves. FREE AppDownload
AcropolisATHENS (Reuters) - Greece expects to cut its budget deficit to 4.3 percent of GDP this year, lower than previously forecast following debt relief measures, but faces a smaller primary surplus in 2016 than agreed with its lenders, new budget projections show. The deficit target for this year, unveiled in an updated 2013-16 medium-term budget plan on Friday, is smaller than an estimate of 5.5 percent of GDP in the previous mid-term plan drafted in October. The government updated its 2013-16 projections to include debt relief measures agreed with Greece's lenders in December and set binding spending limits, a key condition for the continued flow of bailout funding by its euro zone partners and the International Monetary Fund. In the latest plan, submitted to parliament for approval, Athens also projected a smaller primary budget surplus - which excludes debt payments - for 2016 at 3.2 percent of GDP. That is lower than the 4.5 percent of GDP target agreed with lenders, meaning a 2.5 billion euro gap that will need to be bridged. "The government believes ... that with the emphasis it will place on structural measures and growth initiatives, it will cover the small fiscal adjustment that might result in 2015-16," the plan said. The updated plan is based on unchanged growth assumptions, forecasting a 4.5 percent GDP contraction this year and taking into account new tax measures passed by parliament last month. The plan assumes the economy will return to growth in 2014 after six years of recession, although it will only expand by 0.2 percent next year. It expects growth to accelerate to 2.5 percent in 2015 and 3.5 percent in 2016. (Reporting by Harry Papachristou and George Georgiopoulos; Editing by Susan Fenton) Copyright (2013) Thomson Reuters. Click for restrictions  FREE AppDownload
Five full years on from the financial crisis, stock markets have regained lost ground and are within striking distance of new record highs. Yet, it’s only NOW, after all the gains from the bottom have been made, that the investing crowd is starting to put money back into stocks. Curious. When stocks were CHEAP, nobody wanted them. Now that they’ve breached record nominal highs again (Dow 14,000++), investors are piling back in. It’s almost a cliche, but to make money investing, you generally have to buy something when nobody else wants it, and sell when everyone wants to buy. For example, I wrote in early December that the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE) index was due for a bounce. Sentiment had hit rock bottom. Retail Chinese investment accounts were dormant. And the headlines warned of impending doom as the index hit a 4-year low. But, as I suggested, BUYING was the right call, and we’ve made about 20% since then. However, the rebound has played out. If you followed me on this trade, I suggest taking profits. I’m personally unwilling to risk holding Chinese stocks long term. That’s because, just as in the West, the Chinese government is engaging in a giant game of “extend and pretend.” Chinese banks have just rolled over 75% of all loans to local governments, which were supposed to have been repaid by the end of 2012. We’re talking about at least 3 trillion Chinese Yuan, or nearly half a TRILLION dollars worth of debt. It’s an enormous burden. The China trade was a short-term idea, speculating that sentiment would bounce and the index would recover. We were right. And looking around today, I see another opportunity along the same lines– GOLD STOCKS. As a group, gold stocks are down between 20% and 30% over the past year. Yet in that same timeframe, the price of the gold has risen. As a result, sentiment toward gold stocks is pitiful. Even diehard gold bugs are tired of losing money in gold stocks and have been dumping their shares in disgust. There are 4 main reasons I can think of why gold stocks might be so cheap: Let’s examine these in turn. Reason 1 is unrealistic. Stocks are hitting 5-year highs, but the root causes of financial crisis, namely too much borrowing and spending, have not been addressed. There is more money and debt in existence now than ever in history. Central banks have created trillions of dollars out of thin air. And debts have merely migrated from the private sector to public balance sheets. In our view, gold remains an EXCELLENT hedge against systemic risk in our view. Reason number 2 is partly true. A lot of money that might have gone into gold mining stocks has instead gone into the many paper gold and ETF products that have proliferated in this bull market. But with gold stocks now RELATIVELY cheaper against gold itself, a reversion to the mean seems a reasonable expectation. Reasons 3 and 4 are possibilities. Mining costs are rising, and a deflationary credit crunch could really affect production if mining companies lose their financing. Initially, this scenario would likely put downward pressure on both gold prices and the equity value of mining companies who would see their project financing opportunities diminish. To me, these are among the chief risks we would be assuming by buying gold stocks over the long-term. But I’m not suggesting this trade for the long-term. It’s like the China recommendation in December. I’m suggesting that there’s money to be made buying a HATED sector of the stock market while it’s out of fashion and nobody wants it. Right now, this means gold stocks. More than likely, sentiment will rebound, the crowd will come back, and we’ll be able to lock in short-term profits. Read more posts on Sovereign Man » This article originally appeared at Sovereign Man.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
asfal.TO / FlickrStocks are rallying across Europe. England's FTSE 100 is up 0.5%. France's CAC 40 is up 0.5%. Germany's DAX is up 0.2%. Spain's IBEX 35 is up 0.4%. Italy's FTSE MIB is up 0.2%. The market strength comes on the tail of strong January Chinese import and export numbers. Most economist agree that the figures were probably boosted by Chinese New Years. Regardless, optimism is holding. SEE ALSO: 28 Charts Every Gold Investor Must See &gt; FREE AppDownload
US FundsGold may be the most controversial asset class in the global financial markets. However, many of the conditions that were bullish for gold in the past are looking bullish today. US Funds Frank Holmes, an expert on commodities, recently presented a monster slide deck that made the ultimate bull case for gold. Wealth in the gold-loving emerging markets is on the rise and monetary policy continues to be extremely easy around the world. Also, the year after a presidential election is historically a good one for gold. Holmes has charts illustrating these factors as well as many other factors that might convince you gold is on its way up. We pulled the 28 very best charts from the 77-slide presentation.
