On Tuesday Apple unveiled the new iPad Mini (along with the iPad Air). The new mini-tablet has a Retina display, just like other iPhones and iPads, as well as the same A7 processor as the iPhone 5S and iPad Air. The iPad Mini's sharp screen comes with a $70 price bump — which BI's Jay Yarow describes as a strange, high-risk move from Apple.  With that in mind, here's a breakdown of the current mini-tablet market (while the tablet market can be found here): C Inton/REUTERS
If you want to see the future of renewable energy in the U.S., you should check out the large container sitting next to a nondescript office building off the I-95 corridor in Maryland. Inside of it is a system that helps solve one of the key problems in the renewable industry: how to store power for longer periods of time in an economical way.  "Energy storage takes a way that variability and makes it more predictable for the grid." Mike Edmonds, VP of the U.S. Business Unit for Chicago-based utility components manufacturer S&amp;C Electric Company, told BI by phone recently.  We've told you how solar and wind demand is booming. But sometimes it's not windy, or the sun isn't shining. This disrupts the ability of renewable generators to provide a steady stream of current. Now, the headquarters of Konterra, previously best known as the Laurel, Md.-based property developer serving the DC metro area, is home to one of the first renewable energy storage systems in the U.S. capable of not only storing generation when the sun's not shining, but also delivering power to the local electric grid. Here's what it looks like: Solar Grid Storage (By the way, the photo accompanying this story is from an identical unit at a Naval facility in Pennsylvania). The parts to focus on are the inverter, the batteries, and the transformer. The inverter is used to convert the electricity generated by Konterra's new rooftop solar panels, which come with the system, into a usable current to power either the building or the local grid. The battery, which is actually just an off-the-shelf lithium ion package, can be tapped by the local grid to temporarily charge or discharge excess power in the surrounding area.  Finally, the transformer can remove the Konterra building from the grid in case of a regional power outage, providing up to four hours-worth of backup supply. Current renewable storage set ups are pretty expensive. This system helps make it more economical.  As GreenTechMedia's Martin LaMonica writes, the company that designed the whole system, Solar Grid Storage, actually gets paid for helping the grid operator balance power supply and demand — money that would otherwise be going to natural gas plants. “When you can really squeeze value out of [solar and storage], it will revolutionize not just solar, but the way the grid operates,” the head of Standard Solar, which developed the whole project, told LaMonica. “You’ll see lots of distributed generation and microgrids, and the grid will be more of a backup.” PJM, the grid operator for the mid-Atlantic, is so far the only major network in the country where this kind of setup, called Regulation Service, is possible. Grid operators, and the electricity industry in general, is notoriously conservative.  But given where the renewable market is going, it seems they probably can't afford to be so for much longer. FREE AppDownload
Henry Blodget, Business InsiderBenny's Barbershop, 5th Avenue, Brooklyn, New York.I am a creature of habit. This has its advantages, but it also means I'll keep doing the same thing forever even if I'm not all that crazy about it. For example, for the past decade or so, I've been getting my hair cut at the same haircut place. The last time I got my hair cut at my usual haircut place, though, my wife finally said, "Enough."  So that was it for my last haircut place. But I had no idea where to find a new haircut place. So I put off getting a haircut for about six weeks longer than I should have, until I just couldn't take it anymore. Then, this morning, when I finally had a free weekend morning and was about to cave and go back to my old haircut place, my wife shoved me in the other direction. "There's a barber down on 5th Avenue." she said. "Try that." So I did. And it was a surprisingly pleasant experience. My old haircut place was a "unisex salon," which meant that I had to get a shampoo before I got my hair cut. That was a hassle, and it added a $2 tip to the $23 + $5 tip haircutter's tab. The salon was also full of women getting dye jobs, and it was popular enough that you needed an appointment. My new haircut place, "Benny's Barbershop," doesn't require appointments. You just walk in. Benny's, furthermore, is not a unisex salon. It's just for "Men and kids."  Going to a haircut place for just men and kids, I discovered, has several advantages, especially when the place is run by folks who have the marketing acumen of the folks who run Benny's. First, Benny's has two big flat-screen TVs showing live sports. Today, while I was at Benny's, the live sport on the TVs was English Premier League soccer — Chelsea vs. Newcastle and then Fulham vs. Manchester United. One of the TVs in Benny's is visible from the chairs you wait in, and the other is visible in the mirrors while you're getting your hair cut. If you have to get your hair cut, I learned, it's much better to get it cut while watching sports. Henry Blodget, Business Insider Second, I discovered, Benny's serves beer. The guy who cut my hair, Jake, told me I was welcome to grab a beer from the fridge after my haircut and hang out and watch the rest of the game. Jake also told me that, next summer, I can come back and watch the World Cup at Benny's. I've certainly never been offered a beer while getting my hair cut before. (I wondered about the liquor license thing, but I don't think that Benny's actually sells beer. I think they just share them with you. Like water. Or mints. Jake, by the way, is from Uzbekistan. He came to America 10 years ago. He speaks English with a remarkably good accent. I can't even imagine speaking a foreign language that well without having learned it as a kid.) Lastly, I also discovered, the toilet seat at Benny's is already up. So there are indeed several advantages to getting your hair cut at a haircut place for men. And there are also advantages, as every sharp business-person knows, to understanding how to appeal to the hearts and minds of your customers. Haircuts at Benny's also only cost $16, which is less than the $23 I was paying before. Benny's has conveniently long hours — 8:30 to 7:00 every day of the week. And you can also get a full-on, lie-back-in-the-chair, hot-towel and straight-razor shave if you want. I've never gotten one of those, but I've always been curious about them. So I'm happy to say I have found my new haircut place — Benny's Barbershop on 5th Avenue in Brooklyn. And I've been reminded of some excellent business lessons in the process. Henry Blodget / Business Insider
Flickr/Telstar Logistics Can't get a good job in your own country? Looking for somewhere a little more fun? Whatever your reasons, great opportunities exist for expatriates around the world. HSBC's annual Expat Explorer survey ranks the best places to go based on experience, economics, and raising children abroad, with subcategories for each group. We've picked out the top 15 places overall. (But you can also personalize the rankings based on what factors matter to you.) FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Edgar Su  Facebook came out with earnings this week, and the reaction was somewhat farcical. The stock exploded immediately on news of a strong earnings and revenue beat and a good outlook. Then all those gains evaporated on the conference call as the company admitted for the first time that teens were starting to cool on the site. But still, the stock has gone on an incredible run, and now sits jut below $50 per share. So where's next from here? Citi analyst Mark May came out with a note on Friday outlining how the company can get from where it is now to $70/share, which would represent a 40% gain. The potential gains for the company is summarized in this chart, which we'll explain further below. Citi As you can see, Citi foresees Facebook growing its value by turning on various revenue drivers that don't currently exist. A big one is simply the company's core CPMs. Right now, Facebook ads are worth less than other ads, and this is something that Citi believes the company will be able to rectify thanks to its superior data on its users. May writes: "In short, our analysis suggests that by assuming only a modest 2% 10-year eCPM CAGR leads to $339mn, $885mn and $1.6bn in incremental revenue in CY14, CY15 and CY16, respectively" Here are the other drivers: So says Citi, turn on all these things, apply a reasonable valuation to these businesses, and in a few years you're at $70/share. FREE AppDownload
Scott Shane of The New York Times has published a masterful piece on what the paper learned from its trove of classified documents leaked by former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden. One thing that stands out is the NSA uses corporate language, and Shane writes the spy agency is akin to one of the largest in the world: Amazon. He explains that while the CIA still gathers intelligence "roughly the same way spies operated in biblical times," but the NSA has progressed from spying on long-distance phone calls to spying on computers, cellphones, and the Internet: From The Times: Today’s N.S.A. is the Amazon of intelligence agencies, as different from the 1950s agency as that online behemoth is from a mom-and-pop bookstore. It sucks the contents from fiber-optic cables, sits on telephone switches and Internet hubs, digitally burglarizes laptops and plants bugs on smartphones around the globe. The corporate analogy continues throughout the report, as one document states that the agency's "business processes need to promote data-driven decision-making.” Shane writes that the proliferation of computers, laptops, tablets, and smartphones means that "hacking has become the agency’s growth area." That's sounds a lot like how Amazon runs its business: The company "uses the Internet to get maximum leverage out of its fixed assets" while investing tons of money in big opportunities to expand globally. The NSA's investment in extract data from electronic devices leads to a pressure to deliver for what the agency calls  “customers,” which includes the White House, Pentagon, Intelligence Community (IC), State Department, and various mundane departments such as the Energy Department and the United States Trade Representative. Shane notes that it's disingenuous when government officials defend the NSA by saying it prevents terrorist attacks because "the focus on counterterrorism is a misleadingly narrow sales pitch for an agency with an almost unlimited agenda. Its scale and aggressiveness are breathtaking." What's so refreshing about Shane's report is that it acknowledges that the documents are "far from comprehensive" but do "give a sense of the agency’s reach and abilities."  Nevertheless, the agency clearly states that its end goal is to “utterly master” foreign intelligence carried on communications networks, according to the Times. Shane details some of the hurdles and limitations, and notes one thing that many NSA critics ignore: "In every international crisis, American policy makers look to the N.S.A. for inside information." The report is full of interesting nuggets about NSA operations around the world, and Shane's writing is top notch. FREE AppDownload
"Abenomics" is the name given to Japan's effort to get itself out of a multi-decade slump via an aggressive bout of monetary easing, the likes of which it hasn't pursued in the past. One of the common misconceptions about Japan, and the Japanese strategy is that monetary easing is about weakening the yen, and boosting exports via cost competitiveness against its global manufacturing peers. This may be a tertiary effect, but the real game is to boost inflation expectations in order to boost domestic spending. The key thing to think about is that in a deflationary environment, it behooves the consumer to delay purchases, since they'll be cheaper tomorrow or the next month. Abenomics seeks to break this pattern. So does it? Well here's a chart of Japanese retail sales, via Wells Fargo. There's your answer. Wells Fargo Meanwhile, it's not just consumer demand looking hot. Here's a nice look at industrial production. Wells Fargo FREE AppDownload
I’ve been having a good discussion on Twitter with Tren Griffin about indexing and value investing.  Value investors are stock pickers.  They think they can find the buried gems in the market that others can’t find.  It’s certainly possible.  And Tren agrees that only about 5% of people are any good at it.  And that’s the thing, it’s not realistic for most people to rely on such an approach. What I find interesting though, is that most people don’t think of index funds as macro investing.  But what is an index fund?  An index fund is just an inactive bet on a macro trend.  If you buy the S&amp;P 500 index you’re basically making a bet on corporate America.  If you were to combine that with an aggregate bond index you’d simply be diversifying your bet on corporate America.  But the point is, you’re still making a macro bet that corporate America will do well.  You’re not making micro bets.  And if you diversify even broader then you’re just extending this macro bet to other markets.  If you bought the Vanguard Total World Index and combined it with an aggregate bond index you’re just placing a global macro growth bet.  That’s all.  In other words, index funds are mostly just macro funds.  I call them “lazy macro” strategies.  And lazy portfolios are just fine for most people. Of course, there’s varying degrees of macro investing.  You can be extremely passive like the John Bogles of the world.  Or you can be more strategic and tactical like the Ray Dalios of the world.  Either way, it’s all macro….And that’s the future of the world.  Macro.  As I always say, it’s a macro world and we’re all just living in it. Read more at http://pragcap.com/most-index-funds-are-macro-funds#uwbqGwes5wusC4rK.99 FREE AppDownload
Former Amazon employee Eugene Wei has a thorough analysis of Amazon's business model, and why everyone seems to misunderstand the company.  Last week, Amazon reported its second straight quarterly loss. Instead of dumping the stock, investors bought more pushing Amazon to new heights and prompting analysts to slap $400+ price targets on it.  This oddity — Amazon getting rewarded for not making money — led to the usual jokes on Twitter about Amazon being a charitable organization, as well as skepticism that it can ever make money. Wei explains that both the jokes and the skepticism are wrong. Amazon is profitable in its retail operations, but it's losing money overall because it's investing in big opportunities to expand globally and crank up sales.  He has a great analogy for explaining how Amazon works:  To me, a profitless business model is one in which it costs you $2 to make a glass of lemonade but you have to sell it for $1 a glass at your lemonade stand. But if you sell a glass of lemonade for $2 and it only costs you $1 to make it, and you decide business is so great you're going to build a lemonade stand on every street corner in the world so you can eventually afford to move humanity into outer space or buy a newspaper in your spare time, and that requires you to invest all your profits in buying up some lemon fields and timber to set up lemonade franchises on every street corner, that sounds like many things to me, but it doesn't sound like a charitable organization. Catch that? Amazon has a profitable business. It has figured out how to make money. Now, it's investing in expensive stuff like fulfillment centers to create a more profitable, global business.  His full analysis is worth a read, but if you're short on time, here are the key points: Read the full post here » Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through hispersonal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
It is hard.  Just because people speak English, do not be deceived.  It is an utterly alien place from America culturally, and I found (and still find) the adjustments frustrating and I sometimes still get furious from the difficulties. One of the biggest realities is the drop in the material standard of living.  British wages are not as high as in the US and things are more expensive.  Obviously, this impacts on lifestyle. Houses are very expensive and you will live in a house half the size you'd expect in the US, often attached to your neighbour and with a one car garage (if you are lucky).  There are no basements, so you feel cramped and everything is cluttered -- I've never seen a walk-in closet to date.  You will cram everything into a 'wardrobe' the size of your coat closet. My friends living like this are Oxford and Cambridge grads in IT in London, teachers, engineers, journalists -- all university grads.  There are, of course, higher levels up from this but it is generally those connected to the City, oil executives or high flyers.  Doctors will live higher up the scale, but not to American standards.  Pharmacists have low 5 figure salaries, even though they hold chemistry degrees - a huge disparity, same with nursing.  You will eat sandwiches in your office, not go out for lunch as is done daily in the US.  You will not have a garbage disposal, and will be expected to hang your laundry out to dry  (fighting the rain the whole time -- having to check weather reports, can you believe?).  Household work is more time consuming as the conveniences built into newer housing just aren't there.   But there are pubs!  Pubs are an Englishman's refuge and the place where you meet up with mates for a quick pint  - guys and gals — as a routine part of 'friend maintenance.'   Our groceries are ordered on the internet and delivered to our front door -- as is typical for all supermarkets.  We live on the 'High Street' in our village -- bakeries, cafes, barber, grocery store and bus stop are located there, and three pubs of course.  The train station to London is an 8 minute walk. My daughter is 14 and has 11 subject areas:  Latin, Greek, French, Chemistry, Biology, Physics, Advanced Maths, History, English, English Lit and Music (theory, performance and composition).  She  anticipates fluency in French at 17.  The education system is exam based, there is no GPA.  She wants to study medicine and as med school begins freshman year, she has already begun pre-med coaching sessions at school. Brits get a lot more time off -- 5 weeks as a rule -- and travel is a priority.  The cultural aspects of the country are fascinating - tiny it may seem,  but it takes a lifetime to know this place, and with Europe so close it is expanded even further.  A massive advantage of living here is the National Health Service.  If an American could understand it, they would be amazed by its magnificence.   In this past week I have seen an ENT consultant surgeon and have had surgery scheduled in a few weeks' time.  There was no direct cost to me. Tonight my GP (family doctor) rang at 8pm to check in on another health issue.  She is chasing a consultant to authorise a new medication and will ring me back next week.  This did not cost me a penny.   So, three doctors and one medical procedure without a form to fill in or a bill to pay.  Pretty damn impressive stuff --yes, I know it is in our taxes but the system works well.  It is 'from birth to grave' care all woven together into one service -- ambulance to GP to hospital to nursing care.  There are all kinds of synergies created by such a system.  It is to be deeply respected, emulated, and not feared. Another advantage is the lack of gridlock in politics -- we are being spared the current ugliness in the US, and the safety nets of good employment law, disability rights and maternity/paternity leave are reassuring. The infrastructure of the country is in a much better state...there are no derelict buildings or crumbling roads.  There is greater acceptance and less stigma in being a racial minority (although still far from easy). Gay marriage has been in place a long time and is a non-issue. And best of all (to me):  the deeply inbuilt intellectualism -- world class museums, theatres, concerts, bookshops, lectures everywhere. People jump to conclusions about Brits being unfriendly but this is simply an American reaction to the British cultural norm of avoiding relationships that are superficial.  Once you are a friend, it is sincere and has a depth and permanence that outlasts many of those I had in the U.S. I do miss the affiliation to college sports, as my friends all gather for all the big football games at our university and have a great party -- there is no such culture here.  There are the big football games -- but it's professional sport just like the NFL.  The World Cup rivals the Super Bowl, however. I would give my right arm for an American washer and dryer, and you won't understand this unless you've seen the laundry situation here. As I type this, our laundry is hanging in the family room, damp, and when dry must be ironed.  All Brits iron, or hire someone to do it.  This is a personal 'I hate Britain' rage issue for me.  No place is perfect, I know.  But having to hang clothes out to dry in February? In spite of this, Britain is a place that you can come to love as your own.  The countryside is stunningly beautiful and I am grateful for the hours I spend driving in it.  Bunnies hop, pheasant fly and fox dash around me every day.  Yet London remains close at hand. The Brits have extremely strict zoning restrictions and there are no 'strip malls' -- not anywhere.  So you drive for an hour straight and won't see a petrol (gas) station or any commercial building sticking out like a sore thumb.   There is a deep love and care for the countryside that makes it compelling, and you can never tire of it.  It is the work of a thousand years -- a landscape built by man, layer by layer.  A masterpiece.  When you watch Downton Abbey, you are seeing the actual house and landscape of an aristocratic family in Hampshire - one hour from where I live. Just look at the size of those cedar trees outside the front of the house.  All the rooms and lands you are seeing are real without alteration (except for the downstairs servant quarters).   I live minutes from Petworth House  - a house of equal magnificence, built in Palladian style with a 1000 acre deer park.  It is breathtaking to behold, landscaped by 'Capability' Brown.  The inside is just as amazing, filled with paintings by Turner, Van Dyke and endless architectural treasures. These houses span across the countryside.  There is so much the British have to be proud of - and the subject of 'the' War has an awesomeness all of its own. Brits are stubborn and won't be beaten -- the Nazis discovered that one!  Ugly cement blocks plonked around my street are leftovers of a planned blockade against Panzer tanks -- the sheer balls of a small village readied to resist such a massively dangerous foe is, to me, stunning. The military has a proud heritage and is so highly regarded that the Royals feel a deep attachment to it -- including Princes William and Harry. The weather... it does drizzle here a lot but it doesn't get very cold. People get on with cycling, hiking, and   pretty much everything but it can mess up summer weddings.  It  certainly  is not a Californian sun zone . .people go to Spain.I have found the financial drop in living a lot harder than I thought it would be.  The differences between me and my American friends in terms of material possessions is large. They are better off in all financial areas of their life -- except property prices*.  However, a lot of the feeling about financial difference is lost over time -- we now tend to reference our lives with our British peers.  When we go back home there is a massive shock and whoops of laughter at the bigness of everything. Yes, I do envy those closets and everything being on sale.  Yet it also brings awareness of the wastefulness of American culture -- those gallon size soft drink containers and 100 other excesses are fun for a few weeks' holiday, but then we've had enough.  Being in England teaches carefulness with resources (gas $8/gallon), and I am happy my children live within these constraints.To make a move here you should be fully prepared for how expensive it is, the lower wages, and the resulting drop in your (material) standard of living.  If this is not of concern to you, and you want all the gains outlined above, then living here is quite good. Britain has afforded me a window into a world beyond my wildest Midwest imagination.  For this I am grateful.  I don't know if I could happily re-integrate into America now.  Perhaps on the coasts.  Saying that, I hold America dear and defend it daily.  It was once explained to me by another ex-pat that  I am 'Mid-Atlantic' -- caught in the middle of the ocean, unable to decide which direction is home.*if you work in the City, you will find things comparable to Wall Street.  It is a separate world - entirely - from how normal Brits live. FREE AppDownload
A recent gold rush in the Madre de Dios region of southern Peru has led to devastating deforestation in the Western Amazonian forests, according to a study released last month. After the global financial crisis in 2008, an increased demand for gold lead to a massive increase in mining in the area. The majority of the gold mining is illegal but because it is small-scale and done in secret, it has been  difficult for the Peruvian government to police.   Greg Asner, a professor at Stanford’s Carnegie Department of Global Ecology, has been developing a software called ClASlite that detects deforestation by analyzing satellite and aerial imagery. Asner has been working with the Peruvian government, developing a special version of the software calibrated to detect gold mines. What the software has found is striking. CLASlite results indicated an increase in gold mining from less than 25,000 acres in 1999 to more than 120,000 acres in September of 2012. Using imagery from the last ten years and CLASlite, Asner made this map that shows all of the gold mines in the Madre de Dios region of Peru, colored by the year in which they were constructed. It’s clear how much the gold mining and deforestation has accelerated since 2008: CLASlite Team This map shows only what's happened since 2008: CLASlite Team Disclosure: Jeff Bezos is an investor in Business Insider through his personal investment company Bezos Expeditions. FREE AppDownload
REUTERS/Gleb GaranichPeople walk past a currency exchange office in Kiev October 16, 2013. It will be a jittery 18 months for Ukraine's international creditors, who are weighing up its $60 billion-plus debt repayment schedule against its fast-diminishing hard currency reserves.Increasingly vulnerable or fundamentally sound? Tactically bullish or tactically bearish? Views about emerging markets (EMs) had already been diverging before the Fed let the “tapering” genie out of the bottle in late May. With investor sentiment towards the asset class shifting almost from one week to the next, trading strategies for EMs are in a state of flux. The two competing drivers of price action in EMs are the Fed and country-specific conditions. For the more vulnerable markets, the former is holding sway. Market perceptions of a slightly less dovish Fed after Wednesday’s FOMC statement contributed to sharper falls in the prices of Turkish and Indonesian bonds than those of Polish and Malaysian ones. Yet even in the riskier markets, it’s not all about the Fed. Policy credibility and flexibility also matter. Take recession-plagued Ukraine whose credit rating was downgraded further into “junk” territory on Friday. With “twin deficits” in the 6-7% of GDP range and a central bank burning through its rapidly dwindling FX reserves in a doomed attempt to defend the currency, Ukraine’s woes make those of the so-called “fragile five” group of EMs appear relatively minor. Differentiation within the EM asset class is becoming increasingly important. The Fed hasn’t even begun “tapering” its asset purchases, and yet investors are already being forced to pay more attention to the idiosyncrasies of developing economies. It’s not just external funding positions that need to be scrutinised - other determinants of risk in EMs are coming to the fore. The politics of economic reform are extremely important in developing economies given the imperative of maintaining higher growth rates - particularly with the gap between EMs and advanced economies expected to narrow to just 3.3 percentage points this year, compared to nearly 6 in 2008, according to the IMF. This article originally appeared at Spiro Sovereign Strategy.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsCiti's latest 48-page "Global Economic Outlook and Strategy" report is out, providing commentary and forecasts on where the bank thinks the world's major economies are headed. Dogged by fiscal "episodic uncertainty," the euro area and the U.S. face "persistent tail risks that could derail the gradually improving economic outlook," writes Citi's chief economist Willem Buiter. "But, the most likely outcome in both the US and euro area is that policymakers will do enough to avert a crisis, even if this involves further 'kicking the can down the road.'" As for China, Citi continues to see "major concerns about the medium-term sustainability" of growth despite the country's Q3 rebound. "More broadly, although delayed Fed tapering may provide supportive near term liquidity conditions, we continue to see downside risks to growth in a wide range of other EM countries, amidst sluggish world trade growth, plus the buildup of EM imbalances (fiscal, current account, private debt)," he wrote. In the report, Buiter's team breaks down what's happening in each economy. We pulled out the highlights. FREE AppDownload
China PhotosHoward Schultz attends a Chinese Starbucks opening in 2006. The furore over Starbucks prices is the latest in a series of setbacks for foreign firms in China. The difference this time has been in how the chain has reacted to the criticism. China Central Television (CCTV) recently broadcast a 22-minute “special investigation” into why a medium latte at Starbucks in Beijing costs Rmb27 (US$4.43), one-third more than in Chicago. The investigation linked high prices to the company’s “fierce” profit margins in Asia and to Chinese customers “blind faith” in foreign brands at any price. It also cited an old Chinese phrase to describe the relationship: “one is willing to hit, the other to be hurt”, in reference to an episode from the historical epic tale "The Three Kingdoms", in which one character is publicly flogged by his ally to fool enemies into believing his subsequent feigned defection. The comparatively high price of Starbucks in China has, for years, been targeted by the media, but this was the first time the issue made national television. In fact, the current round of Starbucks-bashing (dubbed “fierce-gate” since the CCTV airing) originated in a September story on the Chinese website of the Wall Street Journal. The story found that internet use and foreign travel is increasing price awareness among consumers, and that many items are pricier in China than elsewhere. Aside from Starbucks, data cited from SmithStreet, a Chinese consulting firm, compared the prices of 500 items across 50 clothing brands and found them, on average, to be priced 70% higher in China than the US. Despite this, the CCTV report was ridiculed by the foreign media as nationalist posturing by a state-controlled network. Starbucks China’s head office in Shanghai was understandably dismissive when approached by CCTV journalists. And, in what it claims was an inadvertent move, Starbuck’s official page on Chinese microblogging platform Weibo the next day featured a picture that was interpreted by many followers as a veiled censor-evading insult directed at CCTV. Starbucks denied any such intention. Whether it was an act of defiance or the innocent result of neglect is hard for authorities to determine, just as China’s critics may never know if the media attack on Starbucks originated from within government. Acquiring a grande latte is hardly a burning issue in China and a visit to the ubiquitous Taiwanese chain 85°C would yield a take-away version for less than one-half of the Starbucks price (Rmb13). Starbucks are also not breaking any rules in setting a high price for their coffee, and consumers have plenty of choices elsewhere. In fact  the phrase “one is willing to hit, the other to be hurt” may be more suitable to illustrate China's recent relationship with a number of foreign brands who have taken a public flogging, whether justified or not.   In April, Apple CEO Tim Cook apologised and changed Apple’s warranty terms in China after a CCTV campaign reported that broken iPhone claims were handled differently in China than elsewhere. In July, Danone and Nestle cut baby formula prices by as much as 20%, after the official People’s Daily newspaper claimed that regulators had evidence of price-fixing. Adverse publicity over food scares this year has also significantly impacted Yum, owner of the KFC brand and a New Zealand-based dairy giant, Fonterra. Most recently, a Korean electronics giant, Samsung, sent “deep apologies for causing inconvenience to its customers” after CCTV claimed that it had been selling faulty smartphones in China, despite no confirmation of the alleged faults. Foreign critics have pointed out that the national media increasingly resembles a consumer advocacy body. This seemed to be supported when Li Yi, a consultant to the Ministry of Information wrote on Weibo that CCTV's priority should be to "protect domestic consumers from the bullying of foreign brands" and that "at the same time, domestic products also should get stronger". Whether this is a change in tack for the channel or whether targeting foreign companies makes good television, CCTV is clearly willing participate. Unlike other firms, Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz has been unwilling to bow to media pressure. Rather than issuing a grovelling apology, he publicly defended prices by blaming higher costs and investment in the Chinese market. This has been refreshing for some observers and, in the short term, has proven productive. The brand has been basking in a newfound popularity since the broadcast. “Starbucks coffee price investigation” became the second most popular topic trending on Weibo, with users questioning the broadcaster's motive for covering something as trivial as the price of a coffee. However, taking on the Chinese media, and authorities, is a difficult battle to win. The lower price of competing chains makes "higher costs" difficult to defend. There is a brand cachet attached to western firms, but rising awareness is pushing consumers to realise that Starbucks is hardly a luxury brand. This, combined with media antagonism, could generate consumer hostility and harm Starbucks' image, and revenue, in China. These are potentially troubling times for foreign firms in China. Periods when regulatory scrutiny intensifies are not uncommon in China. In fact, it may be tough to find foreign firms that haven't been on the receiving end of price, safety or hygiene scandals at some point. But over the last few months scrutiny has been more sustained, led by consumers and the media, as well as regulators. In addition, domestic firms are growing in confidence. A recent tie-in between China Resources and Tesco, for example, gives the world's fourth-largest retailer a stake of just 20% in the venture. Meanwhile, the likes of Bright Foods and Shuanghui are making significant acquisitions abroad. This comes against a backdrop of rising consumer awareness and a mooted slowdown, driven partly by crackdowns on corruption and gift giving that have exposed potential frailties among foreign-owned luxury brands. Other firms have been swift to apologise because they see long-term opportunity in China, and do not wish to harm this by raising ire among those in power. Starbucks may need to tread carefully in an environment where the media is difficult to distinguish from the regulators, and where consumers are becoming more informed and price conscious. In fact, Mr Schultz may eventually end up adopting the approach taken by other foreign firms, of issuing an apology, whether warranted or not, to bring the matter to a swift conclusion. Click here to subscribe to The Economist  FREE AppDownload
Mark Mobius/Franklin Templeton InvestmentsMark Mobius is the authority on frontier markets, the "emerging markets of the future." As executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, Mobius spends 250 - 300 days a year traveling to economic final frontier.  He's the Indiana Jones of investing. Business Insider caught up with Mobius while he was out in Georgia, a tiny country that connects Western Asia and Eastern Europe. We asked him what he looks for in a frontier or emerging market investment, and what he learned from his visit to Georgia. Business Insider: What are the best sign that an investment will do well in an emerging market or frontier market?  Mark Mobius: The first and foremost sign is growth.  Economic growth drives company growth and profitability, and that is thus what we want to see when investing.  We look for well managed companies who are capable of taking advantage of the country’s economic growth.BI: What's on your must-do list when you visit a country for the purposes of analyzing it as an investment?  MM: The must-do list includes first visiting the companies in which we are interested and meeting the management.  Then we want to talk to the companies’ customers and competitors.  Lastly, we speak with government officials who are involved in regulating and monitoring the businesses in which we intend to invest. BI: What are the big red flags that give you pause?   MM: High turnover of top personnel of a company is usually not a good sign, particularly if there is a departure of the Finance Director.  Also a high debt situation with cash flow being used more and more to pay debt and interest.  Then sales growth is important, and if sales are not rising then that is a bad sign. Mark Mobius/Franklin Templeton InvestmentsMark Mobius greeted by the Prime Minister of Georgia, Bidzina Ivanishvili.BI: What's one question you ask every dignitary or politician you meet when you visit a new country?  MM: What reforms are you undertaking to reduce corruption? What plans do you have to grow the economy and reduce taxation while making government more efficient? BI: What drew you to Georgia?  MM: The fact that the country has undergone a transformation towards a modern and fair society where citizens are treated properly by their government. BI: Could you give us an example of something you learned speaking to locals in Georgia? MM: The most impressive point I learned was how much the old ways had been discarded and the government had become more efficient.  Most important has been the reduction of corruption. BI: What risks should investors be aware of when considering Georgia?  MM: Like in any country there are revisionists in Georgia who want to go back to the old ways.  Also, like other countries there still is corruption.  So these are problems we should be aware of.  In addition, we must watch relations with Russia to ensure they remain on an even keel.  Mobius sent us photos from his recent trip to Georgia. FREE AppDownload
Greg WatersGreg Waters running in the Queens half marathon in 2011.Greg Waters feels unprepared for the New York Marathon, but there's no way the JPMorgan executive director is going to miss this opportunity to run his first marathon. "There is going to be something a bit more special about the 2013 marathon because there was no marathon last year and also because of the Boston tragedy. All eyes will be on this marathon and I would hate to have had a chance to do it and then just wimp out last minute," he said. And so Waters, a born and raised New Yorker, will be one of 48,000 runners in the famous 26.2-mile race on Sunday, even though he says he isn't really an athlete. "I’m carrying 10 more pounds than I should, I've continued to drink socially, and I've cut short a few training runs," he said. Greg picked up running back in 2008 in order to lose weight. Convinced by a friend to take on longer distances, he signed up for the Queens half marathon in 2011, and that's when he got really into running. "It's funny because I remember running and not thinking I could. I finished it and got the bug to run more. So I started running 5k's and half marathons and then I started volunteering at races," he said. Waters applied to run in the New York Marathon and was surprised when he qualified. He thought about deferring until 2014 because he was not consistent enough with his training, but considering the significance of the first NY Marathon after the Hurricane Sandy cancelation in 2012 and the terrorist attack at the Boston Marathon, he decided to go for it.  "Boston will be on my mind so will the cancelation of last year’s NYC Marathon. Boston was such a tragedy but it hasn’t deterred me or my friends from running this year. If anything, it motivates us to perform better, and work harder," he said. Waters found a training schedule online and used that as a guideline to keep him on track for marathon Sunday. "I compete against myself every time I run. I am always looking to one up myself. I keep a log of all the races I run in and my finishing times on a little excel spreadsheet. It's helpful because prior to a race I can look at my history and I tell myself 'OK, you have got to do better,'" he said. Whenever he felt at most risk of dropping out of the marathon he visited this list and looked at all the miles he had already logged thus far. "I realized that for every mile that I already ran would have just been a wasted mile if I didn't do what I am going to do on Sunday," he said. At least the Marathon has roaring crowds to inspire the runners and incredible sights along the way. "What I'm very excited about with this whole race is that I know I am going to see more of the city than I have in 4 hours than my entire life. I'll go through neighborhoods that I use to live in and neighborhoods that I've only ever visited to bar hop at night. I think I'll appreciate living in this city a lot more than I ever have after this marathon." Ready or not, Waters is going to do his best. "Marathon Sunday is here and I’m as ready as I’m going to be. I will be among 48,000 other runners this Sunday some of whom are the best athletes in the world and others who have inspirational stories to tell. I am humbled to race with them all," he wrote on a Facebook post. Below is an image of his training calendar, with missed days in red and partial days in yellow. Facebook FREE AppDownload
FBI HandoutYet another murderous wack-job.It will come as a surprise to no one that the person who stormed into LA Airport yesterday with an assault rifle and several full 30-round clips was a crazy young man who described himself as a "pissed off patriot" who wanted to kill "pigs." The shooter, Paul Ciancia, apparently hunted through the airport until he found someone who happened to have a job with the Transportation Safety Administration and then he killed him. Because this mass-shooting resulted in relatively few casualties, the calls for gun control will likely be even more limited and short-lived than usual. And the pro-status-quo response, that we should instead increase mental-health policing and arm everyone in the country — including, presumably, TSA agents — won't need to be particularly loud. The truth is that today's America is okay with these incidents, or at least accepts them as the price of freedom. It's only when the carnage is particularly horrific — as in the Newtown tragedy — that Americans momentarily re-examine the wisdom of that view. The only blessing of the LAX shooting, such as it is, is that Ciancia's insanity was targeted at a particular sub-group of people — people who happened to be working for government-run organizations — and not people in general. If not for that, Ciancia could have slaughtered dozens of innocent Americans instead of just one. But Ciancia wasn't angry at "people." He was angry at "pigs." And using some heroically twisted logic, he somehow concluded that this view made him a "patriot." Needless to say, Ciancia wasn't a patriot. He was a murderous wack-job. He killed one innocent American and wounded another.  Unfortunately, the political dialogue in this country these days has become so absurdly polarized — and the political rhetoric so hateful — that a good number of non-murderous Americans probably sympathize with some of Ciancia's views. Specifically, they probably think that the country really is composed of good guys and bad guys and that anyone who happens to have a job at a government-funded agency is a bad guy. (This happens with other sub-groups, too, of course. It's much easier to view the world as black and white than to recognize that we're all on a continuum and pretty much the same. Thus, we are continually focusing our animus on "bankers," "lawyers," "the 1%," "the 47%," the "makers" or "takers," different races and religions, or dozens of other sub-groups, all of which are filled mostly with people who are very much like the rest of us.) In light of what happened Friday, it seems time for the rest of us to say something clearly to all of the 22 million Americans who show up to work every day and do the jobs we collectively hire them to do — the teachers, firefighters, police, judges, Social Security and Medicare administrators, environmental protection agents, weather forecasters, scientists, homeland security agents, National Park Service rangers, Post Office workers, tax collectors, soldiers, policy-makers, and, yes, airport security agents...  "Thank you. You devote your working hours to trying to make this country better for all of us. While some of us may disagree with the laws and priorities that pay for your job, we don't for a single second hold that against you.  We thank you for your professionalism, commitment, and efforts on behalf of the rest of us. We're all in this together, and you are doing exactly the same thing the rest of us are doing — your jobs. We wish you and your families all the best." FREE AppDownload
Flickr/ estatesgazette The cost of living in London has always been high, but recently it has been getting out of control, with real estate asking prices jumping a shocking 10% in October, for example. This level of housing insanity has prompted some crazy solutions to the horrible expense of London life. For example, Sam Cookney, a blogger based in London, theorized on Twitter that it'd be cheaper for him to rent a two-bedroom in Barcelona, Spain, and commute to work four days a week than live in a one-bedroom in the U.K. capital: Done the sums. Would actually be cheaper for me to rent 2 bed flat in Barcelona+commute to London, than get 1 bed here. Genuinely. Blog it? Cookney reasons that he'd need around £1,697 a month for rent in the area he'd ideally live (the admittedly fairly nice West Hampstead), if he includes tax and travel. That's €1,979 a month or $2,700. How far would that money go in Barcelona? Well, Cookney looked towards the upscale Les Corts and found a fairly average three bedroom apartment for a flat rate of €680 ($933) a month. He found cheap flights from a nearby airport worked out to around €57 ($78) a day, even factoring in the costs to and from the airport. In total, Cookney claims, he would live in Barcelona and commute to London four days a week for around €1,592 a month — a €387 discount ($530) on life in London, with two extra bedrooms. Whatever the logic of Cookney's argument (four hours of flying every day is not an ideal lifestyle, certainly), it has hit a nerve. His original blog post has now been shared seven thousand times at the time of writing and picked up by the Daily Mail and even appeared in Spain — a bit surreal for a blog devoted to finding "the best burger in North West London." Unfortunately, this does seem to be the new reality of the largest city in Europe — a London where Londoners dream of commuting from Spain, and Spanish expats with multiple college degrees live cleaning toilets. FREE AppDownload
Sometimes in life, we're all caught off guard. For example: It's 3:00 p.m. on a Thursday and your boss e-mails you to remind you of the client drinks you forgot. Or you simply have a meeting that totally slipped your mind. Or your significant other texts you to remind you that you're having a bite with her parents after work — right after work. While your read these messages, you might realize that the clothes you have on are going to remind your significant other's father of how much you tend to forget. In these situations there is no need for alarm. Emergency shopping is a combat sport for men, yes, but if you keep a few things in mind, you can get into a store, out of a store, and back to life at a normal speed in under an hour. Business Insider sent our own Senior Editor Chris C. Anderson out on an emergency shopping mission last Thursday, and below are the lessons we learned from the high pressure, stressful experience we hope to save you. You're welcome. There you have it — some tips to ensure that you never embarrass yourself at Happy Hour with the your client's sales team again. Now RUN. FREE AppDownload
Much has been made in the press about how NYSE margin debt is at an all-time high, suggesting that investors are excessively bullish. However, stock markets themselves are also at all-time highs — so perhaps the level of margin debt doesn't really tell us much that we don't already know. A post on the blog Philosophical Economics (flagged by Josh Brown) explains the mechanism whereby increases in the stock market translate to increases in margin debt: Now, why does total margin debt rise with the level and total capitalization of the market? There is a simple, intuitive answer.  In any environment, a certain percentage of investors borrow against their portfolios.  They borrow for a number of reasons.  Examples include: (1) They may be engaged in investment strategies that hedge and pare risk by applying leverage to uncorrelated assets. (2) Margin debt might be the cheapest type of debt they have access to, and therefore they may use it to pay off other more expensive debts. (3) They might be waiting for money to arrive at a broker, and need temporary liquidity to fund purchases. Or (4), they might just be really bullish and really reckless. We should expect the amount of margin debt that these investors take on to vary with the size of the portfolios they are borrowing against.  Thus, we should expect the total quantity of margin debt in existence to vary with the total capitalization of the stock market (the sum of the value of all equity portfolios).  That is roughly what we see. That brings us to the only margin debt chart that matters: NYSE margin debt as a percentage of stock market capitalization, which shows how the use of margin is growing relative to the pace of the rise in stock prices. Philosphical Economics Why has this measure been rising? Philosophical Economics chalks it up to the evolving investment landscape: Hedge funds have grown dramatically since the early 1990s.  The strategies they employ to smooth out and optimize their risk-adjusted returns involve more leverage than the rest of the market has traditionally used. Additionally, the cost of borrowing against a portfolio has fallen significantly since the early 1990s.  Borrowing on margin is cheaper now than it has ever been, not only because interest rates are at record lows, but also because brokerage competition has produced an outcome where clients are offered much better terms. Finally, with the development and mass expansion of online trading, portfolios are easier to monitor and quickly adjust.  This reduces the stress of being on margin. Read more at Philosophical Economics » FREE AppDownload
Wikimedia CommonsAylesbury Arm, Grand Junction Canal.The Company of Proprietors of the Grand Junction Canal was incorporated by Special Act of Parliament on April 30, 1793 to build a canal from Braunston to the River Thames.  The stock for the canal went through three bubbles, in the 1790s, the 1810s and the 1820s, before settling down once the railroads were built, providing competition to the canal. Unfortunately, there is almost no data for the Canal Mania of the 1790s. The number of canals authorized by Act of Parliament in 1790 was one, but by 1793 twenty were authorized. The capital authorized in 1790 was £90,000, but had risen to £2,824,700 by 1793.  Most of the canals raised their money locally, mainly in the Midlands, and there were few transactions in the stocks as a result.  Though a stock exchange was established in Liverpool to trade shares, actual values are hard to come by and must be tracked down through newspapers. Nevertheless, some of the stock increases were impressive. The Birmingham and Fazeley showed the greatest increase, trading at a premium of £1170 in 1793. The first bubble occurred in 1792 and 1793 and we only have two prices for Grand Junction Canal Shares, one at £472.75 in October 1792, a premium of 355 guineas, even before the company had started to dig the canal or gotten approval from Parliament! Talk about a speculative bubble. Shares had fallen to £441 by the time the approval was provided by Parliament, and the prices collapsed after 1795 when shares returned to their par level of around 100. Global Financial Data The London Stock Exchange wasn’t formally established until 1801, so until then the opportunity to trade canal stocks and keep track of the price fluctuations was limited. Even once the London Stock Exchange was established in 1801, most of the prices we have from the Gentlemen’s Magazine and other sources.  The data are bid and ask quotes rather than actual prices since the shares still traded infrequently.  Nevertheless, these data are sufficient to outline the three bubbles in shares of the Grand Junction Canal. The next price we have for Grand Junction Canal shares after 1793 is of £94 in April 1806.  The bubble began in May 1808 when the shares still traded at £96, but the price steadily rose to  £313.5 by June 1808, whence they declined to £179 by August 1811, stabilized around 200 until 1815 when the Napoleonic War ended, then fell to £103 by September 1816.  The second Canal Mania of the 1810s was not as wild as the one of the 1790s, since share prices tripled rather than quadrupled, but the difference was that the Canal Mania of the 1810s was not limited to the Midlands.  Shareholders in London also participated as a result of the establishment of the Stock Exchange. The next move up in the shares began soon after the post-war plummet. Shares moved up steadily from September 1816 to hit £200 by the end of 1817, stabilized around £200 through the end of 1820, then hit £383 by April 1824.  The canal stocks shared in the bubble of the 1820s even though that bubble mainly revolved around South American stocks and the mining companies that were established following the independence of the South American countries. Unfortunately, Grand Junction Canal shares did not benefit from the railway mania of the 1840s since the railways were in direct competition with the canals and shareholders sold their canal shares to invest in railways.  Shares traded steadily between £200 and £300 between 1825 and 1845, but fell along with the Railway Mania crash, with shares falling to £51 by 1853.  Global Financial Data Shares generally rose for the rest of the nineteenth century, hitting £150 in 1897 before declining until the 1920s bull market. The Regent's Canal bought the Grand Junction Canal and the three Warwick canals, and from January 1, 1929 they became part of the (new) Grand Union Canal. The Grand Junction Canal took the proceeds and became a REIT which was renamed the Grand Junction Co., Ltd.  The company was acquired by the Amalgamated Investment &amp; Property Co. Ltd. in 1971. Bubbles require both a source for the speculation, a new technology that excites investors and causes cash to quickly flow into the new discovery, and excess credit being made available to invest in the shares.  The initial canal mania was driven by profits with one canal paying a £75 dividend.  Many of the stocks were profitable, and did quite well, but others that were poorly thought out failed. The two bubbles that drove Grand Junction Canal shares in the 1810s and 1820s were driven not only by the investment opportunities the canals provided, but by the liquidity created by the impact of the Napoleonic Wars on Britain finances.   Between 1793 and 1818, the UK government debt rose from £243 million to £843 million in 1818.  The brief hiatus in the increase in debt between 1808 and 1812 could help to explain the canal mania of 1810-1812 as the Continental Blockade forced investors to put their money to work internally, but once Napoleon invaded Russia, the source of funding dried up.  1819 was when the UK government debt peaked at £844 million, declining from there in absolute terms, much less as a share of GDP, until 1914. It should be remembered that more than anything else, Napoleon made London the financial center of the world.  The French Revolution both destroyed the rich in France through driving wealthy financiers out of Paris and to London, and through inflation, which destroyed the value of the assets the rich had held.  The other financial center in the eighteenth century in Europe was Amsterdam, but it never really recovered from the occupation of French troops in 1795.  Both financial expertise and capital flowed to London as a result of the French Revolution and the wars that followed, and the laissez-faire approach England took to markets ensured that London would be the financial center of the world until World War I. As capital flowed into London during and after the Napoleonic Wars, and investors were allowed to trade freely, stocks benefited. Anyone who questions the impact of the government on the price of financial assets, both positively and negatively, need only look at the Grand Junction Canal’s history as well as that of the London stock exchange to see the impact the government can have. This article originally appeared at Global Financial Data.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
On Tuesday Apple unveiled the new iPad Air along with the iPad mini. The new iPad is the lightest full-size tablet in the world at 1 lb. (The iPad 2 is 1.4 lbs.) Its A7 processor makes it twice as fast as the iPad 2. Earlier we posted a breakdown of the current mini-tablet market. Here's the tablet market:  REUTERS/C. Inton
Most of the time it is really, really, really hard to break into emerging markets if you’re a foreigner with no experience in the country and no language skills. But there are a few exceptions, such as Mexico, India (sometimes), and yes: Singapore. Singapore itself is not an “emerging market,” but when you work there you will be exposed to all the fast-growing economies of Southeast Asia. And while it has become known as “The Billionaire’s Paradise” the world over (hello, Eduardo Saverin), there’s a lot more to the country than $26,000 cocktails with diamonds inside and an overwhelming sense of order. Our interviewee today went from barely participating in formal recruiting to winning IB and PE offers in Singapore, using the most unconventional strategy we’ve seen on this site: showing up in the front lobby and asking to speak with the person in charge. In this interview, he’ll walk you through how he did all of that – plus how and why Singapore is different from other markets in Asia. Just make sure you grab your own $26,000 cocktail first: A Real “Elevator Pitch” Q: So you know how this works. Your background, how you got interested in finance, the whole 9 yards (meters?). A: Sure. About 5-6 years ago, I started getting interested in commodities and natural resources investing and doubled my money in a few months, thinking that I was a “good investor” because of one success story. My next few investments, of course, didn’t perform that well – but the experience made me interested in the finance industry. At university, I did a corporate finance internship at a conglomerate in my 2nd year, and I got to work on a bond issuance and a revolving credit facility they were setting up. I also saw how they used FX and fuel hedging and interest rate swaps, and I became more interested in the structuring process. I wanted to get into IB after that, but I completely missed recruiting because I was away for family / personal reasons and a study abroad program, so I had to try my luck at cold calling boutique and middle-market firms and networking my way in. Banks, of course, only want students who are going into the summer of their penultimate year, so most large firms turned me down. But I found one boutique with an alumnus from my university (after a lot of Googling random firms and trying different email address combinations), and he was happy to help me out. After that boutique IB internship, I started getting a lot more interested in private equity and in going there directly instead of joining a bank full-time. A lot of funds were just starting to set up offices in Singapore, and I thought there was more opportunity than at an established bank. So I looked up every single PE fund in Singapore I could find on Capital IQ, used the information to create a separate cover letter for each fund, and spun my experience into sounding as relevant as possible. I was very aggressive with networking, and I actually went to the front lobby of any firm I could find to pitch myself in-person. Most firms, of course, still turned me down or ignored me – but I found one that was receptive, and I eventually won an offer there. The Finance Industry Q: I think this is the first (firsthand) story I’ve ever heard of someone taking that approach to networking. We’ll come back to your story in a bit, but maybe you can start by telling us what’s different about IB and PE in Singapore, since you’ve had experience working in both industries there. A: Sure. I’ll start with the IB side since that is more well-established. Banks with strong Balance Sheets tend to dominate deals – you see HSBC and DBS (a local bank) bidding on a lot of deals, as well as Standard Chartered, Citi, and so on. There are very, very few mega-deals here because most companies are not that big. If you do see a mega-deal, almost every single bank will be involved – on some larger M&amp;A deals, you’ll see GS, CS, JPM, DB, Citi, DBS, and more, all listed as advisers. Most companies worth over $300 million USD here are family-owned or state-owned, and most families do not want to divest their companies – so M&amp;A activity above that level is limited (and there are even fewer $1 billion+ USD deals in a given year). As a result, many bulge bracket banks aim for deals that are “below the bar” and you’ll see the likes of GS competing with HSBC for middle-market deals, which would be unheard of in the US. Most deals here involve natural resources or shipping, and different countries specialize in different products. Palm oil is huge in Malaysia, while Indonesia is more about coal. Other countries may specialize in rubber, sugar, and other commodities. Singapore is a hub for cross-border deals, partially because of the security and stability offered by the government, and partially because of its location. The most common deal types here are debt and equity issuances. Many bonds are issued here because we’re so “stable”; with ECM, you see a lot of secondary offerings and rights issues. If you work at a boutique firm here, as I did, there will be even less modeling than at a boutique in the US or UK. It’s a very sales-oriented job with a ton of pitch books, and boutiques are at a major disadvantage since the bulge brackets tend to be strongest in the debt and equity deals that are the most common here. Q: So is it safe to say that most companies do deals in Singapore because of the safety and stability over all else? A: Yes – the rest of Southeast Asia is perceived as “risky,” since you never know when the government will collapse, seize all property, or otherwise do something crazy, but Singapore is all about law and order. Companies that list here do so because they want stable stock prices; the main downside is that there’s far less liquidity than in Hong Kong, so some choose to list there instead. In line with this, there’s relatively little in the way of junk bonds, high-yield debt, and so on. That has been changing recently and some companies are now targeting Singapore for issuances that are too small for USD investors, but the volume is still low compared to other countries. Q: You mentioned before how there are lots of cross-border deals there – does that explain why you don’t see the same language requirements you do in Hong Kong? A: Sort of, but not really – it’s a little misleading to think that you will be working on tons of cross-border deals if you work here. Each country here speaks a different language (Indonesian Bahasa vs. Malaysian Bahasa vs. Thai vs. Vietnamese vs. Tagalog…) and most bankers will focus on 1-2 countries because no one can possibly use 5-10 different languages at a professional level. There isn’t a strict language requirement, but you still do gain a big advantage by knowing the local language – some companies’ filings and documents will be in the local language as well. Q: Thanks for explaining that. What about on the private equity / venture capital / hedge fund side? You mentioned that those industries are all relatively new in Singapore. A: Yeah, I doubt there are even 50 “real” buy-side firms here (NOTE: Our lists show around ~100 firms, but some of those may not be traditional PE funds / HFs). Various reasons explain this: On the other hand, Singapore is a great country in terms of light taxes and regulations, and tons of wealthy individuals are moving here – so I think you’ll see more fund activity in the future. Southeast Asia has a good growth story, but it’s not as good as the China or India growth story; there are also more cultural and language barriers since you’re dealing with multiple different high-growth countries instead of just one. Q: So do you think it’s easier for foreigners to find work in Singapore compared to other Asian countries? A: Well, it’s definitely easier to get a job here than in China – as your numerous interviewees in China have pointed out in the past. There isn’t a strict language requirement and it’s much more multicultural, so they’re not going to turn you away for “not being Chinese enough.” With that said, it’s still tough to come here and simply network your way into a job. You’d have a better chance by going through headhunters or transferring internally. Most firms here still prefer local candidates, especially those from the top 3 universities, but people who studied abroad at top schools and then come back here find work as well. Similar to the system in Mexico, many firms will put you through an extended “probation period” where they see how you perform as an intern for a long time before giving you a real full-time offer. So you have to be prepared for that if you’re coming here as a fresh graduate with no work experience. Networking Your Way In From the Lobby Q: Thanks for sharing all that information about Singapore. You mentioned earlier that you looked up firms’ locations, showed up in their lobbies, and asked to speak with someone there. I’m shocked that a) You did it and that b) It worked at all. A: Yeah, that would never work at large banks or at any firms with official security. But most buy-side firms are small, so sometimes you can get lucky. Reactions ranged from people being outright shocked to being a bit surprised. I would introduce myself briefly and ask for the lowest-ranked person there, such as an associate or VP. If that person wasn’t there, I would go one level up and ask for that person instead. I said, “I’m [Name], I attended [University Name], and I’ve done these internships in corporate finance and IB – I know you’re busy, but I can help with any deal work or technical analysis that’s required and I already know how to do what you’re looking for.” Most people just applauded me for my efforts but said they didn’t have any positions available – one firm was more receptive, though, and I happened to catch the right person at the right time. He was having a slow day and his firm happened to be looking for interns (though they weren’t publicly advertising it). He liked what he heard about my background, and they called me back in for a more formal interview where they asked about my previous internships and a few basic technical questions. Q: And then… A: Two weeks later, they called me in for the first round of in-person interviews, which were pretty much all “fit”-based. The next round happened 2 weeks later and they asked more of those types of questions, how I would react to various situations on the job, and so on. They did give me a case study but it was very simple – nothing like the in-depth private equity case studies you’ve described before. They just asked me to project cash flows for a company based on certain assumptions, calculate a few key metrics, and then describe my findings. The only real “trick” was that many PE funds here prefer to use cash-on-cash multiples rather than IRR – so I focused on those in my analysis. On the Job in Singapore Private Equity Q: OK, so it sounds like a fairly standard interview process even though you won the interviews in a very non-standard way. What has the job been like so far? A: The work isn’t that much different from what you do in other geographies, but we operate more like a growth equity firm and don’t use debt quite as much; most of the companies we look at are in the middle-market space as well. Since I’ve been here, around 50% of the deals I’ve analyzed have gone through to due diligence and around 10% of the deals I’ve worked on have closed. There are a ton of deals in the pipeline here, but as with PE in Western markets, you may look at hundreds of deals each year and only do a small handful of them. One of the best parts of the job is that I spend very little time on sourcing – deal flow here is so high that junior associates and interns don’t need to cold call. And since it is a small team, you also get much more exposure than you would at a bigger firm. Around 50% of the deals I’ve worked on have been energy or commodities-related, 30% were in technology, and 20% were in education. Companies here often generate cash flows that are less stable than what most PE firms like to see – so a big part of the job is “business development support,” where we take on more of an operational role and help firms grow their businesses through partnerships and sales expansion. Q: And I’m assuming that’s also part of the reason why debt is less common? A: One of the reasons, yes. Another issue is that many companies are family-owned and the owners are averse to levering up – they prefer equity injections if they need additional funding. Debt in some countries in Southeast Asia is also more expensive than it is in other regions – in Indonesia, for example, rates on 10-year government bonds might be 3-4% (or more) higher than rates on 10-year US Treasuries. Q: So what are the most common exit strategies? You said M&amp;A was not that common, so… A: Yeah, IPOs are the ideal exit strategy, but liquidity isn’t great so not that many companies actually want to list here. Our most common exit strategy, actually, is the “secondary sale to another PE firm.” More and more large-cap firms are setting up shop here and looking for opportunities, so this is the path of least resistance in many cases. Q: Yeah, I suppose that is your best option if IPOs are difficult and strategic M&amp;A is minimal. What about the culture? A: It’s much better than I expected. It’s not at all like investment banking culture where people are running around stressed out with last-minute deadlines and client requests all the time; it is still somewhat stressful, but that’s mostly because of your responsibilities rather than external requests. Since it’s so small, I get tasked with everything imaginable and sometimes it’s just not possible to deliver everything on-time. Overall, though, people are quite nice and are not the typical banker types you might imagine. I’ve never been yelled at despite screwing up many times. After I watched your web series, I thought my firm would be just like that – but I’ve been pleasantly surprised. There are no “David” characters here! Q: I’m good at setting low expectations. I’m glad you liked the series, though, and thanks for taking the time out to do this interview! A: Sure thing, my pleasure. This article originally appeared at Mergers & Inquisitions.  Copyright 2013. FREE AppDownload
Farah Abdi Warsameh / APIn this photo taken Sunday, Sept. 23, 2012, masked Somali pirate Abdi Ali walks past a Taiwanese fishing vessel that washed up on shore after the pirates were paid a ransom and released the crew, in the once-bustling pirate den of Hobyo, Somalia. WASHINGTON, Nov 1 (Thomson Reuters Foundation) - Pirates hijacking ships off the Horn of Africa and Somalia from 2005 to 2012 garnered well over a quarter of a billion U.S. dollars in ransom and used the money for criminal activities worldwide, according to a report released on Friday. The study reveals the pirates engaged in human trafficking arms trafficking, funding militias and money laundering through trade in the stimulant known as khat, particularly in Kenya, as well as other illegal activities that divert money from the legal economy that would otherwise promote economic development. "Unchallenged piracy is not only a menace to stability and security, but it also has the power to corrupt the regional and international economy," said Stuart Yikona, a financial sector specialist at the World Bank and co-author of the report "Pirate Trails." It recommends a range of measures to combat the problem, including steps to deal with illegal cross-border cash smuggling, anti-money laundering measures and mechanisms to monitor financial flows through the khat trade. The study, conducted by the World Bank and the United Nation's Office of Drugs and Crimeand based on interviews with former pirates, government officials, bankers and others countering piracy, estimates that piracy costs the global economy $18 billion a year in increased trade costs. Attacks on ships off the coast of Somalia and the Horn of Africa yielded between $339 million and $413 million in ransom money in the seven years from 2005, it said. The full report is available here http://www.worldbank.org/piratetrails (Reporting by Stella Dawson; Editing by Prudence Crowther) FREE AppDownload
